2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

 
Business Ethics recognizes members who can analyze and present solutions to ethical 
dilemmas commonly faced in the business world. This event includes an individual objective 
test, a written report, and a presentation, allowing members to explore ethical decision-
making, integrity, and corporate responsibility. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2, or 3 members 
Event Category Presentation 
Event Elements Objective Test, Pre-judged Asset, 

Presentation with a Topic 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship  
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
FBLA's Business Ethics events are supported by the not-for-profit MBA Research and 
Curriculum Center. MBA Research offers a wide range of instructional materials focused on 
principles-based ethical decision-making. For more information, visit 
www.mbaresearch.org/ethics/. 
 
2025-2026 Topic Synopsis for Report & Presentation 
How Can Businesses Help the Environment? 
Businesses can affect the planet in both good and bad ways. From the packaging used to the 
energy needed, choices matter. 
 
See pages 9-10 for the full background and topic for use in the executive summary and 
presentation. 
 
Knowledge Areas 

• Communication Skills  
• Self-Awareness  Test Composition
• Doing the Right Thing  
• Teamwork Skills  40

• Leadership Skills  30
20

• Career Readiness  
10

 0
Test questions are based on the knowledge 
areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the 
study guide included in these guidelines. 
 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 1 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Preliminary • Conference-provided nametag • Table 
Presentation • Photo identification  

• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress 
Code 

• Technology and presentation 
items 

Final • Conference-provided nametag • Table 
Presentation • Photo identification • Power 

• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Projector with HDMI 
Code cord 

• Technology and presentation • Projector screen 
items, including any adapter or 
cord needed beyond an HDMI 
connection 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 2 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Competitor Responsibility: Only registered competitors are permitted to plan, 

research, prepare, and set up their presentations. Advisers and others may not assist. 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of four phases: a pre-judged asset, an objective test, preliminary 
presentation, and a final presentation. 
 
Pre-judged Asset Details: Executive Summary 

Submission Deadline 
• A PDF of the executive summary must be uploaded through the conference 

registration system by the state-specified deadline. 
Asset Requirements 

• Number of Pages: The report will be no more than three (3) pages 
• Assets must be formatted to fit standard 8.5” x 11” paper. 
• Links and QR codes are not permitted. 
• Advisers or others may not assist in preparing the asset. It must be created 

entirely by the competitor(s). 
• All content must be original and created specifically for this competition. 

Judging & Ownership 
• Assets will be judged prior to the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Pre-judged assets will not be returned. All submitted projects become the 

property of FBLA and may be published or reproduced for promotional purposes. 
Asset Specific Information 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 3 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

• Competitors must research the topic and prepare a one-page executive summary 
prior to the conference. 

• Competitors must interview three local businesspeople as part of their research 
and explain how the interview findings factored into their recommendations. This 
information must be addressed in the report and the presentation. 

• The first page of the report must include only the title (Business Ethics Summary) 
on the first line, names of all competitors on the second line, the name of the 
school on the third line, the state on the fourth line and the year (2025-2026) on 
the fifth line. 

• The second page of the report is a one-page summary of the topic and findings, 
with the following headings: Why the Ethical Issue Happened, How the Ethical 
Issue Should be Resolved, What Could Have Prevented the Ethical Issue. The one-
page summary can be single spaced. 

• The third page is a works cited page. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Preliminary Presentation Details 

Timing Structure 
• Equipment Set-Up: 3 minutes 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): 3 minutes 
• Important: Time allocations are exclusive. The presentation must begin 

immediately after the 3-minute set-up time concludes. Time may not be shifted 
between segments. Competitors will not interact with judges during the set-up 
period. 

Venue & Format 
• Presentations occur in-person at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 4 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

• Competitors/teams are randomly assigned to presentation sections. 
• Presentations will take place in a large, open area with a designated space of 

approximately 10' x 10', which includes a table and chairs for the judges. 
• The preliminary round is closed to conference attendees and audience. 

Technology Guidelines 
• Internet Access: Not Provided 
• Presentations must be delivered using one or two personal devices (laptop, tablet, 

mobile phone, or monitor approximately laptop-sized). 
• If using two devices, one must face the judges and the other must face the 

presenters. 
• Projectors and projector screens are not permitted, and competitors may not 

bring their own. 
• Wireless slide advancers (e.g., presentation clickers or mice) are allowed. 
• External speakers are not allowed; audio must come directly from the presenting 

device(s). 
• Electricity will not be available. 

Non-Technology Items 
• Visual aids, samples, notes, and other physical materials related to the project may 

be used. 
• Items may be placed on the provided table or on the judges table, if space allows. 
• No items may be left with the judges following the presentation. 

Restricted Items 
• Animals, except for authorized service animals. 
• Food, which may be used for display only and may not be consumed by judges. 
• Links and QR codes, which may be shown but may not be scanned or clicked by 

judges at any time. 
Research 

• Information must be supported by credible, well-documented sources. 
• Any use of copyrighted material, images, logos, or trademarks must be properly 

documented. 
Team Expectations 

• In team presentations, all members must actively participate in the delivery of the 
presentation. 

Event Specific Information: Competitors should incorporate the following aspects in 
response to the topic 

• Define the Ethical Issue: Identify and clearly define the ethical dilemma using 
appropriate industry terminology. 

• Analyze Contributing Factors: Explain at least two key reasons behind the issue. 
Provide thoughtful analysis to demonstrate understanding of how these factors 
impact the situation. 

• Offer Ethical Recommendations: Present two or more well-supported solutions 
to address the ethical dilemma, using credible evidence to justify each 
recommendation. 

• Recommend Safeguards: Suggest at least two safeguards or preventative 
measures with strong supporting rationale to help avoid similar issues in the 
future. 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 5 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

• Incorporate Research and Real-World Input: Use accurate, well-sourced 
research and include insights from business professionals gathered through 
interviews or outreach to strengthen your analysis. 

 
Final Presentation Details 

Timing Structure 
• Equipment Set-Up: 3 minutes 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): 3 minutes 
• Note: Each time segment is exclusive. Once the 3-minute set-up period ends, the 

7-minute presentation time begins automatically. Competitors may not shift time 
between segments. Competitors will not interact with judges during the set-up 
period. 

Advancement to Finals 
• The top-scoring competitors or teams from each preliminary section will advance 

to the final round in equal numbers. 
• The number of competitors or teams advancing to the final round depends on the 

number of preliminary sections: 
• 2 sections: Top 6 from each section advance 
• 3 sections: Top 4 from each section advance 
• 4 sections: Top 3 from each section advance 
• 5 sections: Top 3 from each section advance 
• More than 5 sections: Top 2 from each section advance 

Audience & Viewing Rules  
• Final presentations may be open to conference attendees, depending on space 

availability. 
• Finalists may not view other presentations in their own event. 

Technology Guidelines 
• Internet Access: Not Provided 
• Presentations must be delivered using one or two personal devices (laptop, tablet, 

mobile phone, or monitor approximately laptop-sized). 
• If using two devices, one must face the judges and the other must face the 

presenters. 
• If the final round takes place in a conference room, the following equipment will be 

provided: a projector, projector screen, power access, and a table. 
• Competitors using laptops or devices without an HDMI port must bring their own 

compatible adapters. 
• It is the responsibility of final-round competitors to decide whether or not to use 

the provided technology. 
• Wireless slide advancers (e.g., presentation clickers or mice) are allowed. 
• Electricity will not be available. 

Non-Technology Items 
• Visual aids, samples, notes, and other physical materials related to the project may 

be used. 
• Items may be placed on the provided table or on the judges table, if space allows. 
• No items may be left with the judges following the presentation. 

 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 6 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Restricted Items 
• Animals, except for authorized service animals. 
• Food, which may be used for display only and may not be consumed by judges. 
• Links and QR codes, which may be shown but may not be scanned or clicked by 

judges at any time. 
Research 

• Information must be supported by credible, well-documented sources. 
• Any use of copyrighted material, images, logos, or trademarks must be properly 

documented. 
Team Expectations 

• In team presentations, all members must actively participate in the delivery of the 
presentation. 

Event Specific Information: Competitors should incorporate the following aspects in 
response to the topic 

• Define the Ethical Issue: Identify and clearly define the ethical dilemma using 
appropriate industry terminology. 

• Analyze Contributing Factors: Explain at least two key reasons behind the issue. 
Provide thoughtful analysis to demonstrate understanding of how these factors 
impact the situation. 

• Offer Ethical Recommendations: Present two or more well-supported solutions 
to address the ethical dilemma, using credible evidence to justify each 
recommendation. 

• Recommend Safeguards: Suggest at least two safeguards or preventative 
measures with strong supporting rationale to help avoid similar issues in the 
future. 

• Incorporate Research and Real-World Input: Use accurate, well-sourced 
research and include insights from business professionals gathered through 
interviews or outreach to strengthen your analysis. 

 
Scoring 

• The pre-judged asset score, team-averaged objective test score, and preliminary 
presentation round scores will be added together to determine which competitors 
advance to the final round from each section. 

• The final presentation score determines the top winners. 
• Pre-judged asset score will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 7 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 8 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Business Ethics Background and Topic: How Can Businesses Help the Environment? 
Background Information: This section provides competitors with context on how 
businesses can positively impact the environment through sustainable practices. 
Competitors should review this information before completing the Business Ethics 
competition using the provided scenario on the following page. 

Environmental issues like climate change and energy use have long been contentious and 
divisive topics in American society. In fact, there seems to be only one thing we can all agree 
on: No one can agree on anything! 

However, a recent climate and energy survey from Pew Research Center found there is 
actually something most Americans seem to agree on. Roughly 70% of Americans believe that 
businesses are not doing enough to help the environment and reduce the effects of climate 
change.  

This public sentiment comes at a time when many businesses may feel disincentivized to 
invest in eco-friendly practices. Economic uncertainty permeates throughout the global 
economy, regulatory agencies and policies are being curtailed in the United States, and 
powerful interest groups continue to influence public policy and opinion. 

In the face of all these obstacles, is it beneficial—or even possible—for businesses to embrace 
sustainability? 

This decision will ultimately fall to the current (and future) business leaders of America. And 
while public opinion may be cynical and the economic and political environment may be 
formidable, professionals can still adopt frameworks to help them incorporate responsible 
and sustainable decision-making.   

A good place to start is with ethics. Ethics are the basic principles (such as integrity, 
transparency, and trust) that govern your behavior. In the business world, ethics are essential 
to navigating issues ranging from employee conflicts to corporate sustainability practices. The 
framework or set of standards professionals use to handle these bigger-picture issues is 
sometimes referred to as Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG).  

Businesses don’t have to be market leaders in renewable energy or major power players in 
Washington to make a positive impact on the environment. A positive impact might be as 
small as switching to cloud storage or double-sided printing. If professionals incorporate 
ethical principles (like accountability and viability) and frameworks (like ESG) into their 
organizations’ vision and processes, every business can play a role in making our planet a 
more harmonious, hopeful, and healthier place.  

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 9 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

High School Topic 

Car company Geo Motors is known for being at the forefront of developing clean energy 
technologies for the automotive industry. After a string of moderately successful hybrid 
models, the company has just unveiled its most ambitious product yet: The Geo Pulse.  

The Pulse boasts top-of-the-line features like 360-degree cameras, voice command 
technology, and self-driving capabilities. But the feature most prominently advertised is its 
low environmental impact. The Pulse is a fully electric vehicle (EV) with a staggering battery 
capacity of over 700 miles. Geo Motors proudly describes the Pulse as the highest-performing 
“zero-emissions vehicle” on the market. Virtually all marketing content for the car features 
this label, as well the model’s slogan, “Feel the most eco-friendly car in the world. Feel the 
Pulse.” 

However, shortly after the car is announced, a prominent news outlet releases an investigative 
report stating the Pulse—while still an impressive vehicle—is not nearly as eco-friendly as Geo 
Motors claims.  

The report explains that several key components of the car—such as its carbon fiber body and, 
most notably, its high-capacity lithium battery—are manufactured in a very energy-consuming 
and carbon-intensive process at Geo Motors’ factories. Furthermore, the mining methods 
necessary to extract the minerals for the large battery resulted in widespread deforestation 
and habitat destruction in central Africa and southern Asia. And lastly, the report found that 
certain mechanics of the Pulse, such as the artificial intelligence program necessary for the 
voice command and autopilot technologies, greatly increase the car’s energy consumption 
and lower its max mileage. 

In the wake of these allegations, Geo Motors faces criticism for branding the Pulse as a “zero 
emissions vehicle” that is “the most eco-friendly car in the world.” Company executives admit 
they are still working on more efficient methods to produce and power their EVs. But in the 
meantime, they say, they are standing by their marketing campaign because the Geo Pulse is 
still technically “zero emissions,” as the car itself does not directly emit carbon dioxide. 

But what do you think the company should do? Should Geo Motors change how it markets the 
Pulse? Should it make changes to its manufacturing process? Should it make changes to the 
car itself? How should a business balance innovation with environmental sustainability? How 
can businesses responsibly market products purporting to be eco-friendly? 

  

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 10 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Objective Test Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Communication Skills (10 test items) 

1. Demonstrate active listening skills (CO:017, LAP-CO-017) (PQ)  
2. Explain the nature of effective communications (EI:007, LAP-EI-140) (PQ)  
3. Foster open, honest communication (EI:129, LAP-EI-129) (SP)  

 
Self-Awareness (15 test items) 

1. Describe the nature of emotional intelligence (EI:001, LAP-EI-001) (PQ)  
2. Recognize and overcome personal biases and stereotypes (EI:017, LAP-EI-917) (PQ)  
3. Assess personal strengths and weaknesses (EI:002, LAP-EI-902) (PQ)  
4. Assess personal behavior and values (EI:126, LAP-EI-126) (PQ)  
5. Assess risks of personal decisions (EI:091, LAP-EI-091) (PQ)  

 
Doing the Right Thing (30 test items) 

1. Demonstrate honesty and integrity (EI:022, LAP-EI-138) (PQ)  
2. Demonstrate responsible behavior (EI:021, LAP-EI-021) (PQ)  
3. Demonstrate fairness (EI:127, LAP-EI-127) (PQ)  
4. Take responsibility for decisions and actions (EI:075, LAP-EI-075) (PQ)  
5. Build trust in relationships (EI:128, LAP-EI-128) (CS)  
6. Describe the nature of ethics (EI:123, LAP-EI-123) (CS)  
7. Explain reasons for ethical dilemmas (EI:124, LAP-EI-124) (CS)  
8. Recognize and respond to ethical dilemmas (EI:125, LAP-EI-125) (CS)  
9. Explain the use of feedback for personal growth (EI:003, LAP-EI-903) (PQ)  
10. Show empathy for others (EI:030, LAP-EI-030) (PQ)  
11. Comply with the spirit and intent of laws and regulations (BL:163, LAP-BL-163) (CS) 

 
Teamwork Skills (15 test items) 

1. Participate as a team member (EI:045, LAP-EI-045) (CS)  
2. Treat others with dignity and respect (EI:036, LAP-EI-036) (PQ)  
3. Foster positive working relationships (EI:037, LAP-EI-037) (CS)  
4. Assess long-term value and impact of actions on others (EI:137, LAP-EI-137) (SP)  

 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 11 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

 
Leadership Skills (20 test items) 

1. Explain the concept of leadership (EI:009, LAP-EI-909) (CS)  
2. Explain the nature of ethical leadership (EI:131, LAP-EI-131) (CS)  
3. Model ethical behavior (EI:132, LAP-EI-132) (CS)  
4. Determine personal vision (EI:063, LAP-EI-063) (CS)  
5. Inspire others (EI:133, LAP-EI-133) (CS)  
6. Develop an achievement orientation (EI:027, LAP-EI-027) (CS)  
7. Enlist others in working toward a shared vision (EI:060, LAP-EI-060) (CS)  

 
Career Readiness (10 test items) 

1. Set personal goals (PD:018, LAP-PD-918) (CS)  
2. Follow rules of conduct (PD:251, LAP-PD-251) (CS)  
3. Make decisions (PD:017, LAP-PD-017) (CS)  
4. Demonstrate problem-solving skills (PD:077, LAP-PD-077) (CS)  

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

Daniels Fund. Daniels Fund Ethics Initiative. https://www.danielsfund.org/ethics/overview  

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

Ethics Unwrapped. https://ethicsunwrapped.utexas.edu 

Harvard Business School Online. What are business ethics & why are they important? 
https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/business-ethics   

Markkula Center for Applied Ethics. https://www.scu.edu/ethics/  

 

 
  

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 12 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Business Ethics Pre-Judged Asset (Report) Rating Sheet 
Expectation Item Not Demonstrated Below 

Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Expectations Points 
Earned 

Content  

No identification of Identifies and defines the 
Identifies and defines ethical issues as it Identifies OR defines Identifies and defines ethical issues using industry 

ethical issues relates to the event the ethical issues the ethical issues terminology  
presented in the topic guidelines 

0 points 1-2 points 3-4 points 5 points 

Reasons for the 
Explains why the No reasons cited for ethical issues Several, but not all, All reasons addressed and 

ethical issues the ethical issues identified but were reasons accurately 
identified analyzed  

happened not on target 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Two or more well-reasoned, 
No solutions are One solution is One or two logical clearly explained solutions 

Provides logical presented, or solutions presented, but it solutions are provided,  provided, demonstrating 
solutions as to how the are unrelated to the lacks clarity, showing understanding are

strong understanding of the 
ethical issues should identified ethical issue. relevance, or logical of the ethical issue and ethical issue and supported  

be resolved support. supported with some 
reasoning. with credible evidence or 

analysis. 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
 

One general Two or more clearly defined, 
safeguard is One or two relevant realistic safeguards are 

recommended and 
Recommends mentioned, but it safeguards are 

thoroughly explained, 
safeguards that should No safeguards are lacks detail, recommended, with a 

showing strong 
have been in place to identified or proposed. relevance, or basic explanation of 

understanding of how each 
prevent the ethical explanation of how it how they could have 

e ethical could have proactively 
issues would prevent the prevented th

issue. issue. addressed or prevented the 
ethical dilemma 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
 

Professionally 
Sources/References legitimate sources & Compelling evidence from 

Substantiates and cites Sources are not cited are seldom cited to resources that support professionally legitimate 
sources used while support statements statements are sources & resources is given 

conducting research generally present to support statements 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
 

Three or more interviews are 
No business interviews Fewer than three clearly summarized, and 

are included, or businesspeople are Three interviews are insights are thoughtfully 
interviews are interviewed, or the completed, and findings 

explanation of their are summarized with a analyzed and directly 
Business Interviews & mentioned without any basic explanation of connected to the 
Integration of Insights explanation or input is unclear or 

relevance to the only loosely how insights influenced recommendations, 

recommendations. connected to the the recommendations. demonstrating a strong 
recommendations. integration of real-world 

perspectives. 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Report Format  

 
5 or more grammar, 3-4 grammar, No more than 2 No more than 1 grammar, 

Includes correct punctuation, or punctuation, or grammar, punctuation, punctuation, or spelling 
grammar, punctuation, spelling errors spelling errors or spelling errors error 

and spelling 

0 points 1-2 points 3-4 points 5 points 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 13 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Guideline Protocols  
Execution Aligned with Guidelines:  

 Executive Summary was submitted as PDF 
Adherence to Competitor(s) Did Not  Links or QR codes were not used (unless in citations) 

Competitive Events Follow Guidelines  Executive Summary was no more than 3 pages: Page 1 title, Page 2 summary, 
Guidelines Page 3 works cited 

 Executive Summary was formatted for 8 ½” x 11” paper 
0 points 10 points 

 
Pre-Judged Asset Total (70 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 
 
 

 

 

 

  

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 14 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Business Ethics Presentation Rating Sheet 
Expectation Item Not Below 

Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Expectations Points 
Earned 

Content  
No identification of Identifies and defines the 

Identifies and defines ethical issues as it Identifies OR defines Identifies and defines 
ethical issues presented in relates to the event the ethical issues the ethical issues ethical issues using industry 

terminology  
the topic guidelines 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
One reason for the One reason identified 

No reasons cited for ethical issue(s) for the ethical issue(s) Two or more reasons 
Explains why the ethical the ethical issues identified but were identified and on identified, on target, and 

issues happened not on target target analyzed  

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

No solutions are Two or more well-reasoned, 
presented, or One solution is One or two logical clearly explained solutions 

Provides logical solutions are presented, but it solutions are provided, 
showing understanding are provided, demonstrating 

recommendations as to unrelated to the lacks clarity, strong understanding of the 
how the ethical issues identified ethical relevance, or logical of the ethical issue and ethical issue and supported  

issue. support. supported with some 
should be resolved reasoning. with credible evidence or 

analysis. 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

One general Two or more clearly defined,  
safeguard is One or two relevant realistic safeguards are 

safeguards are recommended and 
Recommends safeguards No safeguards are mentioned, but it recommended, with a thoroughly explained, 
that should have been in identified or lacks detail, basic explanation of showing strong 

place to prevent the proposed. relevance, or 
explanation of how it how they could have understanding of how each 

ethical issues would prevent the prevented the ethical could have proactively 
issue. issue. addressed or prevented the 

ethical dilemma 
0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 

Research is accurate with  
Research shows quality No research done Research is unrelated All research is supporting evidence 

and related information to with 3 or more to the ethical topic accurate with no provided; incorporates input 
the ethical issues and inaccurate and 1-2 inaccurate reference made to of businesspeople 
incorporates input of statements statements supporting evidence interviewed as part of 

businesspeople presentation 
interviewed 

0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 
Professionally Compelling evidence from  

Sources are not Sources/References legitimate sources & 
Substantiates and cites 

sources used while cited are seldom cited to resources that support professionally legitimate 
support statements statements are sources & resources is given 

conducting research generally present to support statements 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Presentation Delivery  

Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were 
Statements are well- not appear prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in Presentation flowed in a 

logical sequence logical sequence; statements 
organized and clearly prepared was not logical were well organized  

stated 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed skills 

confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body listed skills Demonstrated all skills, 
(confidence, body 

skills language, eye enhancing the overall 
language, engaging eye 
contact, and effective contact, or voice language, eye contact, presentation  

voice projection. projection) or voice projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Does not respond to Responds accurately Responds confidently with  

questions or Provides incomplete 
Demonstrates the ability responses are or unclear answers and clearly to most clear, accurate, and 

questions, showing thoughtful answers that 
to effectively answer completely off- that show limited 

topic. understanding. adequate enhance the overall 
questions understanding. presentation. 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 15 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Ethics (High School) 

Presentation Protocols 
Execution Aligned with Guidelines: (All criteria must be met)  

 Used only allowable technology devices (sizing specs followed; maximum of 
two, with only one facing judges at a time) 

 Presentation aligned with the assigned topic 
Competitor(s) Did  Maintained professional boundaries during set-up time (no interaction with 

Adherence to Competitive Not Follow judges) 
Events Guidelines Guidelines  Did not leave materials behind after the presentation 

 Links or QR codes were displayed appropriately (not clicked or scanned by 
judges) 

 Audio was presented without external speakers (preliminary round) 
 Avoided use of food or live animals 

0 points 10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

 
Presentation Total (110 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Business Ethics (High School) - Page 16 of 16 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.