2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

 
Business Law challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of the legal system and 
its impact on business operations through an objective test. This event covers topics such as 
contracts, ethics, employment law, and consumer protection, encouraging members to explore 
the legal foundations of business. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Public Service & Safety, Management & 
Entrepreneurship 

NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical 
Thinking, Communication, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Legal systems 
• Contracts and sales Test Composition
• Business organization 
• Property laws 25

20
• Agency and employment laws 15
• Negotiable instruments, insurance 10

secured transactions, bankruptcy 5
0

• Consumer protection and 
product/personal liability 

• Computer law 
• Domestic and private law 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Business Law (High School) - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Business Law (High School) - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Business Law (High School) - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Business Law (High School) - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Legal System 

1. Identify ethical character traits: honesty, integrity, compassion, respect, 
responsibility, citizenship, and justice. 

2. Explain the relationship between law and ethics and why they sometimes 
conflict. 

3. Explain the differences between local, state and federal government and the 
powers and limitations of each. 

4. Define statutory law, identify the purpose of statutory law, and describe how a 
bill becomes a statue under federal law. 

5. Identify ways laws affect individuals, sources of law, constitutional rights and 
responsibilities of U.S. citizens, and the responsibilities of government. 

6. Distinguish between different types of courts. 
7. Distinguish between the roles of legal professionals (e.g., judges, lawyers, and 

paralegals). 
8. Identify the elements of criminal, civil, and business law, including trial 

procedures. 
9. Define crimes such as embezzlement, larceny, robbery, burglary, assault, 

battery, forgery, white collar, extortion, bribery, conspiracy, etc.; and classify it 
based on the severity of the punishment. 

10. Explain the difference between crimes and torts. 
11. Define “negligence per se” and give examples of circumstances under which it 

applies. 
12. Define tort of assault, battery, false imprisonment, mental distress, invasion of 

privacy, defamation of character, trespass to land and personal property, 
conversion negligence, and strict liability. 

13. Identify crimes that occur in the business environment. 
14. Understand the purpose and uses of a variety of common legal documents. 
15. Recognize situations that call for legal advice. 
16. Possess a working vocabulary of most frequently used legal terms, such as 

litigation, arbitration, mediation and conciliation, etc. 
17. Explain how disputes can be settled without resort to the courts. 
18. Complete legal documents with notarization as required. 
19. Define environmental law, energy regulation and conservation, and explain the 

purpose and need. 
B. Business Organization 

1. Describe the legal forms of business organization and identify their respective 
advantages/disadvantages. 

2. Describe the types of organizational structures and management levels. 
3. Examine the ways businesses can be created including their rights, limitation, 

and liabilities. 
4. Distinguish between a limited partnership and general partnership. 
5. Differentiate between types of corporations and describe the functions of the 

board of directors and officers of a corporation. 
6. Identify shareholder rights and explain the nature of the shareholder liability. 

Business Law (High School) - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

7. Differentiate between types of corporate expansion (e.g., mergers, 
consolidations, and conglomerates). 

8. Describe the characteristics of a franchise and analyze where it fits in the 
economic and legal framework. 

9. Define a limited liability company and explain the steps in forming it. 
10. Discuss the role of the S.E.C. and identify potential consequences of violating 

SEC regulations. 
11. Discuss ways that government regulation and legal issues in businesses have 

affected each of us. 
12. Develop an understanding of a business’s responsibility to know, abide by, and 

enforce laws and regulations that affect business operations and transactions 
(anti-trust laws, organized labor, and regulatory agencies). 

13. Identify, apply, and keep current with laws and regulations such as those that 
affect business practices like financial and accounting records and storage and 
retention of records. 

14. Identify the legal issues and agencies related to managing a business in the 
global environment. 

15. Identify trade regulations and unfair trade practices regulated by the Federal 
Trade Commission. 

C. Contracts and Sales 
1. Explain the nature and importance of contracts. 
2. Identify the elements of a contract (e.g., offer, acceptance, genuine agreement, 

consideration, capacity, and legality). 
3. List and analyze the steps to creating a legal and binding contract. 
4. Discuss the requirements of an offer and acceptance and how the offer can be 

terminated/discharged/assigned. 
5. Identify the classifications of contracts: valid, void, voidable, unenforceable, 

express, implied, oral, and written. 
6. Define consideration and list examples of valid consideration. 
7. Differentiate among the ways that a contract can be disrupted, such as fraud, 

nondisclosure, misrepresentation, mistake, duress, and undue influence. 
8. Explain a minor’s rights regarding contracts. 
9. List contracts that should be in writing under the Statute of Frauds and identify 

the consequences for failure to comply. 
10. Define breach of contract and name legal remedies available for resolution. 
11. Define sale and explain how the UCC governs the sale of goods. 
12. Distinguish between payment, delivery, and transfer of title of goods. 
13. Explain who may transfer ownership of goods and what is required for the 

transfer of ownership. 
14. List and define the performance obligations of the seller and buyer in a typical 

sales transaction. 
D. Agency and Employment Law 

1. Explain agency relationships and list the ways agency relationships may be 
created. 

2. Distinguish between an agent and individuals such as independent contractors, 
real estate brokers, bailees, and trustees. 

Business Law (High School) - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

3. Identify the duties, scope of authority, responsibilities, and liabilities of agents. 
4. Identify legislation that regulates employee rights (e.g., employment interview, 

testing, law affecting minors, and collective bargaining). 
5. Identify legislation that regulates employment conditions and worker benefits 

(OSHA, workers’ compensation, unemployment compensation, etc.). 
6. Identify legislation (e.g., civil rights, right to privacy, and ADA) affecting 

personnel practices (compensation, promotion, recruitment, selection, 
termination, and training and development). 

7. Describe legal reasons for terminating employees (e.g., employment at will, 
embezzlement, and violation of company policy). 

8. Analyze contracts and company’s position to assist management in labor 
contract negotiations and monitor implementation of contract for compliance. 

9. Discuss the impact of immigration relations to the operation of businesses. 
E. Consumer Protection, Product/Personal Liability 

1. Identify and state the purpose of legislation that regulates consumer credit, 
debt collection, privacy, and electronic credit transactions. 

2. Describe laws and agencies that provide consumer protection. 
3. Define common, unfair and deceptive practices such as: bait and switch, usury, 

identity theft, deceptive service estimates, and fraudulent misrepresentations. 
4. Identify the regulatory agencies established to protect consumers against 

unsafe products and deceptive trade practices. 
5. Explain the concept of strict, absolute, and vicarious liability. 
6. Explain the relationship of business ethics to product service management 

(e.g., product packaging, quality assurance, grades and standards, and product 
promotion). 

7. Apply “truth in advertising” and “government instituted laws” to promotion of a 
product of service. 

8. Distinguish between implied and express warranties and between full and 
limited warranties and describe the protection they provide. 

 
F. Negotiable Instruments, Insurance, Secured Transactions, and Bankruptcy 

1. Explain the essential elements of negotiable instruments, the different types of 
negotiable instruments, and specify their respective advantages/disadvantages. 

2. Distinguish between primary parties and secondary parties. 
3. Describe presentment for payment and presentment for acceptance. 
4. Compare and contrast the different types of insurance. 
5. Identify laws associated with different types of insurance. 
6. Compare/contrast insurance policies and coverage to determine advantages 

and disadvantages. 
7. Describe a secured transaction and requirements for creating a valid security 

interest. 
8. Discuss the different types of mortgages, liens, and their purposes. 
9. Explain the rights of debtors and creditors. 
10. Identify the reasons for bankruptcy laws. 
11. Compare bankruptcy with other alternatives. 

Business Law (High School) - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Law (High School) 

12. Describe the principal features of bankruptcy such as Liquidation and 
Reorganization of Debts, Chapter 7, 11, 12, and 13 Bankruptcy Codes. 

G. Property Laws 
1. Discuss the benefits and burdens of ownership of property. 
2. Define real property, personal property, and fixtures and explain why property 

distinctions are important. 
3. Compare different legal rights and methods of acquiring property and 

transferring title (e.g., renting, leasing, or purchasing, contract for sale, deed, 
title search, abstract of title, mortgage, etc.) including the effects of liens. 

4. Describe and distinguish liens, licenses, and easements. 
5. Describe legal aspects of a real estate transaction. 
6. Describe the legal characteristics of a lease. 
7. Define the different types of intellectual property (e.g., patents, copyrights, and 

trademarks). 
8. Describe the civil and criminal consequences for infringing on the intellectual 

property rights of another. 
9. Explain the impact of zoning regulations on the use of property. 
10. Explain how a bailment is created and describe the standard of care different 

bailees are required to exercise over bailed property. 
H. Computer Law 

1. Explain ethical and legal behavior of computer law as it relates to computer 
hacking, software piracy, source code, software license, copyright law, internet, 
and e-mail. 

2. Discuss existing laws, jurisdiction considerations, and disputes regarding e-
commerce. 

3. Define different types of computer crime and discuss the various types of 
federal and state statues designed to combat computer crime. 

4. Discuss various statutes that deal with the effects and use of computer records 
and privacy matters. 

I. Domestic/Personal Law 
1. Define marriage and explain the rights and obligations that are involved in 

marriage. 
2. Understand concepts related to marriage such as age requirements, prenuptial 

agreements, common law, and types of marriage prohibited by law. 
3. Contrast annulment, divorce, and dissolution proceedings and explain some of 

the typical grounds for divorce. 
4. Describe the law as it related to the distribution of property in divorce as well 

as child custody and child and spousal support. 
5. Describe the legal rights and duties of minors and their parents/guardians. 
6. Explain protections provided by estate planning (power of attorney, will, trusts, 

living will, right to die, etc.). 
7. Identify the requirements of a valid will and indicate the ways a will can be 

revoked or altered. 
8. Identify the responsibilities of a personal representative, executor, or 

administrator in the settlement of an estate. 
 

Business Law (High School) - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.