2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Applications (High School) 

 
Computer Applications challenges members to demonstrate their proficiency in using a variety 
of software applications to manage and communicate business information. Through a 
production test, members apply skills in word processing, spreadsheets, and presentation tools 
to complete real-world business tasks efficiently and accurately. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Production 
Event Elements Production Test 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Communication, 

Critical Thinking, Technology 
 
Knowledge Areas 

• Spreadsheet Functions and Formulas 
• Creating and Formatting with Word Processing 
• Developing Slides & Presentations 
• Integrating Spreadsheets and Word Processing 
• Integrating Presentations and Spreadsheets 

 
Production tests are based on the knowledge areas and competencies outlined for this event. 
Detailed competencies can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
• Fully powered device for production test, • Production test tasks 

including all needed programs installed for the • Internet access for 
production test submission 

• Printed Production Test Reference Guide  
• Conference-provided nametag 
• Photo identification 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code 

Computer Applications (High School) - Page 1 of 5 – Updated October 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Applications (High School) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 

• Production Test Time: 2 hours 
• This event consists of a production test that is proctored and completed on-site at the 

National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Competitors will complete a set of tasks aligned to the event knowledge areas and 

competencies. 
• The Production Test Reference Guide, available on the Competitive Events section of 

the FBLA website (www.fbla.org), may be used during the test. 

Computer Applications (High School) - Page 2 of 5 – Updated October 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Applications (High School) 

 
Scoring 

• The rating sheet will be provided on-site along with the production test. 
• Normalized production scores (using standard deviation, if multiple sections are used) 

will determine the top winners. 
• If there is a tie, the rating sheet will be used to break the tie. The competitor who 

earns the highest score earliest in the order of the rating sheet will be ranked higher. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 
 

Electronic Devices 
• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 

smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
 
  

Computer Applications (High School) - Page 3 of 5 – Updated October 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Applications (High School) 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas & Competencies 

A. Slide Deck Applications 
1. Use software to create a slide deck with multiple types of slides incorporating 

effective use of text, graphics, fonts, animation, and transitions. 
2. Design engaging slide presentations using features such as diagrams, customized 

visuals, animations, backgrounds, interactive elements (e.g., action buttons, 
hyperlinks), multimedia (e.g., audio and video), and speaker notes. 

3. Insert and adjust visual aids—such as images, charts, icons, and infographics—
within slide content using modern layout and formatting tools. 

4. Create original visuals using digital drawing tools, clip art libraries, and imported 
graphics from design software or mobile apps. 

5. Edit, crop, and export images in appropriate file formats (e.g., PNG, JPEG, SVG) for 
presentation use across platforms. 

6. Design and format presentation slides with multimedia elements such as text, 
images, audio, and video. 

B. Spreadsheet Applications 
1. Create, edit, save, and print spreadsheets using functions (e.g., SUM, AVERAGE, 

MIN, MAX, COUNT, IF, AND, PMT, FV, VLOOKUP, XLOOKUP, TODAY, etc.), formulas, 
and data tools within spreadsheet software. 

2. Organize and modify worksheet structure by inserting, deleting, moving, and 
copying rows, columns, and ranges. 

3. Generate and customize charts and graphs with appropriate titles, legends, and 
formatting to visually represent spreadsheet data. 

4. Rename, reorder, and link multiple worksheets within a workbook to create 
integrated, multi-sheet projects. 

5. Enhance the visual design of spreadsheets by applying fonts, colors, cell styles, and 
alignment tools for improved readability and presentation. 

6. Create and manipulate pivot tables to summarize, analyze, and present data trends 
using sorting, filtering, grouping, and calculated fields. 
 

C. Word Processing Applications 
1. Use the Production Test Reference Guide to create a variety of documents.  
2. Use help features and reference materials to learn software and solve problems. 
3. Create, save, and retrieve word processing files. 
4. Demonstrate the use of character formatting features (bold, underline, italics, font 

styles and sizes, superscript, and subscript). 
5. Demonstrate the use of paragraph formatting features (tabs, indentations, line 

spacing, and enumerated items). 
6. Demonstrate the use of page formatting features (margins, justification, vertical 

placement, orientation, page breaks, headers, and footers). 
7. Demonstrate document editing skills using spell/grammar check, thesaurus, 

search/replace, and other document properties. 
8. Create documents using mail merge features. 

 
 
 

Computer Applications (High School) - Page 4 of 5 – Updated October 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Applications (High School) 

 
D.  Application Integrations 

1. Create integrated projects by combining content from word processing, 
spreadsheet, and slide deck application tools. 

2. Collaborate using word processing, spreadsheet, and slide deck applications by 
inserting, reviewing, and responding to comments and tracked changes. 

3. Embed charts or tables from a spreadsheet into a document or slide deck. 
4. Link live spreadsheet data to word processing or slide deck applications. 
5. Generate a report using spreadsheet data and summarize in a slide deck 

application. 
6. Create a unified project across all three applications. 

 
E. Formatting, Grammar, Punctuation, Spelling, and Proofreading 

1. Apply consistent formatting and layout techniques to letters, reports, tables, 
spreadsheets, charts, and graphics. 

2. Produce professional documents using correct grammar, spelling, punctuation, 
and style. 

3. Use built-in editing tools (e.g., spelling and grammar check, editor suggestions, and 
comments) to review and revise content. 

4. Apply rules for capitalization, punctuation, and number formatting while 
proofreading and editing documents for accuracy and clarity. 

5. Export or save documents in appropriate formats (e.g., PDF, DOCX, CSV) for 
sharing, printing, or submission. 
 

The Study Guide represents all knowledge areas that may be covered in the production 
test.  

 
 
 

 

Computer Applications (High School) - Page 5 of 5 – Updated October 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.