2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Problem Solving 

 
Computer Problem Solving challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of 
computer systems, including operating systems, networking, and hardware, through an 
objective test. This event encourages members to apply troubleshooting and analytical skills to 
solve technical problems commonly encountered in the IT field. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical 

Thinking, Technology 
 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Operating Systems  Test Composition
• Networks  
• Computer Hardware and 25

Connectivity  20
• Security  15
• Laptops, Tablets, and Mobile 10

Devices  
• Printers and Peripherals  5

 0

Test questions are based on the 
knowledge areas and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the study 
guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Computer Problem Solving - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Problem Solving 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Computer Problem Solving - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Problem Solving 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Computer Problem Solving - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Problem Solving 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Computer Problem Solving - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Problem Solving 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Operating Systems (20 test items) 

1. Explain the purpose and functions of operating systems 
2. Describe primary operating system components (e.g., registry, virtual memory, file 

system) 
3. Discuss file system characteristics and features (e.g., NTFS, FAT32, ExFAT) 
4. Configure files and programs (e.g., compatibility mode, file compression, installation) 
5. Discuss the characteristics of boot methods (e.g., POST, USB, Recovery) 
6. Troubleshoot common operating system issues (e.g., blue screen of death, crashing, 

boot issues) 
7. Discuss common operating system utilities (e.g., disk management, disk cleanup, 

system monitoring) 
8. Explain considerations when upgrading an operating system 
9. Use common command line tools for Windows and Linux systems (e.g., cd, mkdir, 

ipconfig, cat) 
 
Networks (20 test items) 

1. Explain how data is sent and received through a network (e.g., devices, protocols, IP 
and MAC addresses) 

2. Describe different types of networks (e.g., LAN, WAN) 
3. Describe the functions of common networking protocols (e.g., TCP/IP, UDP, SMTP, 

SSH) 
4. Discuss IP addressing schemes and configurations (e.g., static, dynamic, public, 

private, IPv4, IPv6) 
5. Describe wireless networking standards (e.g., 802.11xx) and equipment 
6. Describe the characteristics of Ethernet (e.g., types, standards, capabilities) 
7. Describe how DHCP and DNS assign, manage, and use IP addresses 
8. Discuss the purposes and functions of common networking devices (e.g., modems, 

routers, switches) 
9. Describe how IP and MAC addresses facilitate communication over networks 

 
Computer Hardware and Connectivity (20 test items) 

1. Describe computer components (e.g., CPU, motherboard, GPU) 
2. Describe expansion cards (e.g., graphics cards, sound cards, NIC) 
3. Discuss considerations when purchasing or upgrading a computer 
4. Describe computer storage devices (e.g., SSD, HDD, external drives) 
5. Explain peripheral cables and connectors (e.g., RJ45/11, USB, thunderbolt) 
6. Describe the characteristics of network cables (e.g., cat 5e, coaxial, fiber) 
7. Apply troubleshooting methodologies to identify and solve common hardware 

problems 
8. Discuss symptoms and causes of computer power issues (e.g., lights, fans, circuit fault) 

  
Security (15 test items) 

1. Discuss the purposes and characteristics of protective measures (e.g., access control, 
permissions, auditing, event logging) 

2. Discuss digital security threats (e.g., viruses, malware, spyware) 
3. Discuss antivirus and firewall configurations 
4. Discuss the danger of social engineering and ways to prevent it 

Computer Problem Solving - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Computer Problem Solving 

5. Discuss common cyber attacks and vulnerabilities (DoS, DDoS, phishing, SQL injection, 
malware, etc.) 

6. Discuss types of security threats (e.g., internal or external, footprinting, spoofing) 
7. Differentiate between confidentiality, integrity, and availability 
8. Describe types of vulnerabilities and how to address them (e.g., non-compliance, 

zero-day) 
9. Discuss Wi-Fi Protect Access features, versions, and characteristics 

 
Laptops, Tablets, and Mobile Devices (15 test items) 

1. Describe preventive care of laptops and mobile devices (e.g., battery, charging, heat, 
cleaning) 

2. Discuss hardware differences between laptops, mobile devices, and desktops (e.g., 
RAM, CPU, efficiency, power supply) 

3. Discuss cross-device data synchronization (e.g., cloud, USB, Wi-Fi) 
4. Describe the capabilities, limitations, and requirements for Bluetooth 
5. Troubleshoot connectivity issues on laptops and mobile devices 
6. Discuss wireless connectivity methods for laptops and mobile devices (e.g., 5G, 

Hotspot, LTE) 
7. Discuss replacement and upgrade of laptop components (e.g., RAM, adapter, battery, 

adapter cards) 
8. Explain common hardware and power issues in laptops and mobile devices 

 
Printers and Peripherals (10 test items) 

1. Discuss printer hardware and consumables 
2. Identify ports, interfaces, and cables used by printers 
3. Troubleshoot printer connection issues (e.g., not responding, printer not found) 
4. Determine causes of print quality issues (e.g., faded, blank, speckled, striped pages) 
5. Explain basic maintenance of laser, inkjet, and thermal printers 
6. Discuss printer sharing methods (e.g., PC host, network, Ethernet) 
7. Customize print jobs with preferences and settings (e.g., trays, duplex, modes) 

 

References 

Association for Computing Machinery. Information Technology Curricula 2017. 
https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/curricula-
recommendations/it2017.pdf  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 1 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 2 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

Codecademy. Introduction to IT. https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-it  

GFC Global. Computer basics. https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/computerbasics/basic-parts-of-a-
computer/1/  

GeeksforGeeks. Computer fundamentals. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/computer-science-
fundamentals/computer-fundamentals-tutorial/  

Computer Problem Solving - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.