2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

 
Customer Service allows members to demonstrate their ability to deliver exceptional service in 
a professional setting. Competitors engage with internal and external customers by answering 
inquiries, resolving issues, and promoting positive customer experiences. This event includes 
an objective test and a role play to assess both knowledge and real-time interaction skills. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Marketing & Sales 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking,  
Leadership, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Fostering Positive Relationships  
• Emotional Intelligence  Test Composition
• Conflict Resolution  35
• Delivering on a Brand Promise  30
• Customer Relationship 25

20
Management 15

• Sales Processes and Techniques  10
5

 0
Test questions are based on the 
knowledge statements and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the study 
guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Customer Service (High School) - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
 
 
 

Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 
• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. Competitors who 
placed in the top ten in Client Service at a previous National Leadership 
Conference are not eligible to compete in this event. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 

Customer Service (High School) - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 
complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The objective test score determines the top 15 competitors advancing to role play round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a customer service–related 

scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy 
may only be accessed within the designated preparation area. 

 

Customer Service (High School) - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

 
Notecard Use 

• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 
presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The objective test score determines the top 15 competitors advancing to role play 
round. Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 
10 pre-selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number 
of correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie in the role play round. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 

Customer Service (High School) - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Customer Service (High School) - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Fostering Positive Relationships (30 test items) 

1. Explain the nature of positive customer relations (CR:003, LAP-CR-003) (CS) 
2. Demonstrate a customer service mindset (CR:004, LAP-CR-004) (CS) 
3. Develop rapport with customers (CR:029) (CS) 
4. Reinforce service orientation through communication (CR:005) (CS) 
5. Respond to customer inquiries (CR:006) (CS) 
6. Interpret business policies to customers/clients (CR:007) (CS) 
7. Adapt communication to the cultural and social differences among clients (CR:019) 

(CS) 
8. Anticipate unspoken customer needs (CR:053) (CS) 
9. Accommodate special needs/specific requests of customers (CR:054) (CS) 
10. Build and maintain relationships with customers (CR:030) (SP) 

 
Emotional Intelligence (15 test items) 

1. Build trust in relationships (EI:128, LAP-EI-128) (CS) 
2. Show empathy for others (EI:030, LAP-EI-030) (PQ) 
3. Foster open, honest communication (EI:129, LAP-EI-129) (SP) 
4. Treat others with dignity and respect (EI:136, LAP-EI-036) (PQ) 

 
Conflict Resolution (10 test items) 

1. Use conflict-resolution skills (EI:015, LAP-EI-915) (CS) 
2. Handle difficult customers (CR:009, LAP-CR-009) (CS) 
3. Handle customer/client complaints (CR:010, LAP-CR-010) (CS) 
4. Determine strategies for resolving customer-service situations (CR:046) (SP) 

 
Delivering on a Brand Promise (15 test items) 

1. Identify company's brand promise (CR:001, LAP-CR-001) (CS) 
2. Determine ways of reinforcing the company's image through employee performance 

(CR:002) (CS) 
3. Explain the importance of meeting and exceeding customer/guest expectations 

(CR:067)  (CS) 

Customer Service (High School) - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 

 
4. Identify factors associated with positive customer experiences (CR:052) (CS) 
5. Deliver positive moments of truth (CR:055) (CS) 

 
Customer Relationship Management (10 test items) 

1. Discuss the nature of customer relationship management (CR:016, LAP-CR-016) (SP) 
2. Explain the role of ethics in customer relationship management (CR:017, LAP-CR-017) 

(SP) 
3. Describe the use of technology in customer relationship management (CR:018) (SP) 
4. Use Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology (CR:024) 

 
Sales Processes and Techniques (20 test items) 

1. Establish relationship with customer/client (SE:110) (CS) 
2. Determine customer/client needs (SE:111) (CS) 
3. Recommend specific products (SE:114, LAP-SE-114) (CS) 
4. Demonstrate good/service (SE:374, LAP-SE-374) (SP) 
5. Convert customer/client objections into selling points (SE:874, LAP-SE-874) (SP) 
6. Close the sale (SE:895, LAP-SE-895) (SP) 

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

Help Scout. 21 key customer service skills (and how to develop them). 
https://www.helpscout.com/blog/customer-service-skills/  

HubSpot. What is customer service? https://blog.hubspot.com/service/customer-service  

Zendesk. What is customer service? https://www.zendesk.com/blog/customer-service-skills/  

 

 
 
  

Customer Service (High School) - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.  



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Customer Service (High School) 
Customer Service Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Below 
Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Points 

Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and Demonstrates 
expertise of role play 

Demonstrates understanding of role play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides 
synopsis AND 

the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synopsis AND 
s the problem(s) definition of the  

problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) define
problem(s) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Communicates in a 

No position Communicates municates position professional manner 
Communicates position on role communicated position not related Com

on problem position on problem 
play scenario to problem  

in scenario 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Feasible solution and 
No solution Solution provided, Logical solution and implementation plan 

Identifies logical solution and identified but implementation implementation plan developed, and 
aspects of implementation plan not developed provided and developed necessary resources  

identified 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

 
Empathy or 

Displays empathy/diplomacy No empathy or diplomacy displayed Empathy and diplomacy Display of empathy 
when responding to role play diplomacy displayed in response to role displayed in response to and diplomacy skills 

f 
scenario play scenario role play scenario add to resolution o

role play scenario 
 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

t was resolved,  
Demonstrates conflict No closure was Situation was closed Conflict was resolved, Conflic

the situation has 
resolution and closure to the provided OR conflict was the situation has 

resolved closure closure, and client 
role play (judge) is satisfied 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Role Play Delivery 

Presentation flowed 
Competitor did not Competitor was 

Statements are well-organized appear prepared prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in in a logical sequence; 
and clearly stated was not logical logical sequence statements were well  

organized 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed skills Demonstrated all 

confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body listed skills (confidence, 
skills, enhancing the 

language, engaging eye contact, skills language, eye body language, eye 
contact, or voice contact, or voice overall presentation  

and effective voice projection. projection) projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Interacted with the  
Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 

Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions of completely 
effectively answer questions answering questions 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

Presentation Total (100 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Customer Service (High School) - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.