2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Economics 

 
Economics challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of key economic concepts 
and principles through an objective test. This event covers topics such as supply and demand, 
market structures, fiscal and monetary policy, and the global economy, encouraging members 
to explore how economic forces shape the world. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Financial Services 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical Thinking 

 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Fundamental Economic 
Concepts  Test Composition

• Nature of Business  
• 30

Economic Systems  
25

• Government’s Impact on 
20

Business  
15

• Cost/Profit Relationships  
10

• Economic Indicators  5
• Global Trade  0

 
Test questions are based on the 
knowledge areas and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the study 
guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Economics - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Economics 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Economics - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Economics 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Economics - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Economics 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Economics - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Economics 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Fundamental Economic Concepts (15 test items) 

1. Distinguish between economic goods and services (EC:002, LAP-EC-902) (CS) 
2. Explain the concept of economic resources (EC:003, LAP-EC-903) (CS) 
3. Describe the concepts of economic and economic activities (EC:001, LAP-EC-901) (CS)  
4. Determine economic utilities created by business activities (EC:004, LAP-EC-904) (CS) 
5. Explain the principles of supply and demand (EC:005, LAP-EC-905) (CS) 
6. Describe the functions of prices in markets (EC:006, LAP-EC-906) (CS) 

 
Nature of Business (15 test items) 

1. Explain the role of business in society (EC:070, LAP-EC-070) (CS) 
2. Describe the types of business activities (EC:071, LAP-EC-071) (CS) 
3. Describe the types of business models (EC:138) (SP) 
4. Explain the organizational design of businesses (EC:103, LAP-EC-103) (SP) 
5. Discuss the global environment in which businesses operate (EC:104, LAP-EC-104) (SP) 
6. Describe factors that affect the business environment (EC:105, LAP-EC-105) (SP) 
7. Explain the nature of business ethics (EC:106, LAP-EC-106) (SP) 
8. Explain how organizations adapt to today’s markets (EC:107, LAP-EC-107) (SP) 

 
Economic Systems (15 test items) 

1. Explain the types of economic systems (EC:007, LAP-EC-907) (CS) 
2. Identify the impact of small business/entrepreneurship on market economics (EC:065) 

(CS) 
3. Explain the concept of private enterprise (EC:009, LAP-EC-909) (CS) 
4. Identify factors affecting a business’s profit (EC:010, LAP-EC-910) (CS) 
5. Determine factors affecting business risk (EC:011, LAP-EC-911) (CS) 
6. Explain the concept of competition (EC:012, LAP-EC-912) (CS) 

 
Government’s Impact on Business (5 test items) 

1. Determine the relationship between government and business (EC:008, LAP-EC-016) 
(CS) 

2. Describe the nature of taxes (EC:072, LAP-EC-072) (SP) 
 

Economics - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Economics 

 
Cost/Profit Relationships (10 test items) 

1. Explain the concept of productivity (EC:013, LAP-EC-913) (CS) 
2. Analyze impact of specialization/division of labor on productivity (EC:014, LAP-EC-914) 

(SP) 
3. Explain the concept of organized labor and business (EC:015, LAP-EC-915) (SP) 
4. Explain the impact of the law of diminishing returns (EC:023, LAP-EC-023) (SP) 

 
Economic Indicators (15 test items) 

1. Discuss the measure of consumer spending as an economic indicator (EC:081) (SP) 
2. Describe the economic impact of inflation on business (EC:083) (SP) 
3. Explain the concept of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) (EC:017, LAP-EC-917) (SP) 
4. Discuss the impact of a nation’s unemployment rates (EC:082, LAP-EC-082) (SP) 
5. Explain the economic impact of interest-rate fluctuations (EC:084) (SP) 
6. Determine the impact of business cycles on business activities (EC:018, LAP-EC-918) 

(SP) 
 
Global Trade (25 test items) 

1. Explain the nature of global trade (EC:016, LAP-EC-916) (SP) 
2. Discuss the impact of globalization on business (EC:109) (SP) 
3. Describe the determinants of exchange rates and their effects on the domestic 

economy (EC:100, LAP-EC-100) (SP) 
4. Explain cultural considerations that impact global business relations (EC:110) (SP) 
5. Discuss the impact of cultural and social environments on global trade (EC:045, LAP-

EC-045) (SP) 
6. Describe the impact of electronic communication tools (e.g., internet, video-and 

computer-conferencing, webcasts, email) on global business activities (EC:111) (SP) 
7. Explain the impact of major trade alliances on business activities (EC:112) (SP) 
8. Describe the impact of the political environment on world trade (EC:113) (SP) 
9. Explain the impact of geography on world trade (EC:114) (SP) 
10. Describe the impact of a country’s history on world trade (EC:115) (SP) 
11. Explain the impact of a country’s economic development on world trade (EC:116) (SP) 

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/    

Council for Economic Education. https://www.councilforeconed.org/  

Federal Reserve Education. https://www.federalreserveeducation.org/  

Investopedia. Economics. https://www.investopedia.com/economics-4689800  

 

 

Economics - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.