2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

 
Hospitality & Event Management challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of 
the hospitality industry and event planning through an objective test and a role play scenario. 
Members apply their knowledge in areas such as customer service, operations, logistics, and 
marketing to solve real-world business situations. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Hospitality, Events, & Tourism 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 
The number of questions per knowledge area is in parentheses.  

 
• Hospitality Marketing Concepts (5) • Project Management (5) 
• Types of Hospitality Markets and • Manage the Event (4) 

Customers (5) • Hospitality Marketing Concepts (5) 
• Hospitality Operation and • Develop Financial Resources (4) 

Management Functions (5) • Manage the Event Budget (4) 
• Customer Service in the Hospitality • Human Resources (2) 

Industry (5) • Train and Manage Staff and 
• Human Resource Management in the Volunteers (4) 

Hospitality Industry (3) • Manage Stakeholder Relationships (3) 
• Legal Issues, Financial Management, • Design the Program (2) 

and Budgeting for the Hospitality • Engage Speakers and Performers (2) 
Industry (4) • Food and Beverage Sales (2) 

• Current Hospitality Industry Trends • Meeting Design and Layout (3) 
(4) • Managing Movement of Attendees (2) 

• Environmental, Ethical, and Global • Event Site Selection and Management 
Issues for the Hospitality Industry (4) (3) 

• Hotel Sales Process (5) • Marketing the Event (5) 
• Manage the Strategic Plan for a • Communication and Professionalism 

Meeting or Event (5) (5)
 
Test questions and role plays are based on the knowledge statements and objectives outlined 
for this event. Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 1 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 2 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 
Business Report). 

• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 
complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
  

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 3 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a hospitality and event 

management–related scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned 
preparation time. This copy must be shared among team members and may only be 
accessed within the designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 4 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 5 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A.  Hospitality Marketing Concepts 

1. Describe the basic concepts of marketing as they relate to the hospitality industry.  
2. Define the seven key marketing functions (Selling, Marketing Information Management, 

Financing, Pricing, Promotion, Product/Service Management, and Distribution). 
3. Define service marketing and how it relates to the hospitality industry. 
4. Explain the impact of travel and tourism on the U.S. economy as well as worldwide. 
5. Describe various advertising strategies for the hospitality industry. 
6. Explain public relations and publicity as they relate to the hospitality industry. 
7. Explain the role of demographics as it relates to hospitality management. 
8. Describe market segmentation and meeting the needs of various target markets in the 

hospitality industry. 
9. Explain the product and service mix for various types of hospitality businesses. 
10. Describe marketing strategies for the hospitality industry. 

B.  Types of Hospitality Markets and Customers 
1. Define the impact that a conference/convention center has on the hospitality industry 

for a city or region. 
2. Describe the latest trends regarding the leisure traveler. (Eco/environmental, etc.) 
3. Define the different hotel and motel types.  
4. Describe property wide amenities that meet the needs of the different target markets 

in the hospitality industry. 
5. Explain the difference between a full-service and a limited-service hotel. 
6. Differentiate needs for various markets in the hospitality industry. 
7. Describe financial criteria for different target markets in the hospitality industry. 
8. Analyze the importance of long-term hospitality relationships with other major 

industries and individuals. 
9. Describe incentives and rewards for long-term repeat individuals/groups in the 

hospitality industry. 
10. Describe the value of customer feedback in the hospitality industry as it relates to 

improvement to product and service.  
C.  Hospitality Operation and Management Functions 

1. Select an accounting system using good accounting practices. 
2. Describe strategies and procedures for determining room rates and prices in the hotel 

industry. 
3. Collect and interpret financial data to prepare financial statements such as balance 

sheet, income statement, cash flow projections and summary of sales and receipts.  
4. Interpret data from financial statements to develop short- and long-term budgetary 

plans, to determine point of profitability and viability and to analyze cash flow forecast 
(i.e., RevPAR) 

5. Describe basic purchasing procedures commonly used in the hospitality industry. 
6. List different sources of financing available for purchasing a hospitality business. 
7. Discuss strategies for increasing occupancy rates. 
8. Define occupancy rate and yield management in the hospitality industry. 
9. Explain the four basic functions of hospitality management (planning, organizing, 

implementing, controlling). 
10. Describe the importance of planning and forecasting for the hospitality industry.  
11. Analyze the importance of having good hospitality personnel to support meetings, 

events, and lodging for the customer. 
12. Explain the importance of strategic planning and synergy for successful management of 

hospitality events. 
13. Describe the leadership characteristics and human relations skills that help managers 

influence employees to perform at a higher level. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 6 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

D.  Customer Service in the Hospitality Industry 
1. Describe in-room hotel amenities and explain why they are important to guests. 
2. Describe property wide hotel amenities and explain why they are important to guests. 
3. Determine, maintain, and improve the marketing mix (product, price, place and 

promotion.) 
4. Apply strategies for determining and adjusting prices to maximize on return and meet 

customer’s perceptions of value.  
5. Develop and deliver effective customer relation skills in order to provide good 

customer service. 
6. Establish effective selling philosophies in order to develop customer loyalty and 

profitability.  
7. Explain typical rating systems used in the lodging business.  
8. Conduct research to determine customer needs and wants in the hospitality industry. 
9. Gather and evaluate marketing information to make hospitality business decisions. 
10. Analyze the characteristics, motivations, and behaviors of hospitality consumers. 

E.  Human Resource Management in the Hospitality Industry 
1. Explain basic activities for front-of-the-house and back-of-the-house operations in a 

hotel. 
2. Identify various types of employee compensation and recognition.  
3. Evaluate the effects of employee absenteeism, errors or other negative employee 

behaviors on business productivity. 
4. Plan, develop and implement employee orientation and training programs. 
5. Develop an employee recruitment plan designed to identify and hire qualified 

employees. 
6. Describe the salary and fringe benefit package that will attract the best employees to 

the hospitality industry. 
7. Develop a plan for evaluation of employee presentation and productivity. 
8. Develop separation, termination and transition procedures for processing employee 

personnel actions. 
9. Plan and manage work schedules and personnel to maximize operations. 
10. Describe safe working conditions in the hospitality industry to include OSHA 

Guidelines. 
11. Identify and explore career opportunities to create a professional growth and 

development plan.  
12. Exhibit positive work behaviors and personal qualities to enhance the work 

environment. 
13. Motivate and supervise personnel to achieve completion of projects and company 

goals. 
14. Develop an organizational chart with staffing/human resource plans including job 

descriptions and recruitment techniques.  
15. Identify ways to improve employee morale and customer satisfaction. 
16. Identify basic principles of organized labor and describe its influence on the 

hospitality industry.  
17. Explain the impact of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action on the 

hospitality industry. 
18. Identify personal characteristics of effective employees within the hospitality industry. 
19. Identify global factors affecting the future of the hospitality workforce. 
20. Identify technology and other factors affecting the future hospitality workforce. 

F.  Legal Issues, Financial Management, and Budgeting for the Hospitality Industry 
1. Describe the type of liability insurance needed in the hospitality industry. 
2. Describe accommodations that meet ADA standards. 
3. Interpret the information found on financial statements in the hospitality industry. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 7 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

4. Explain the relationship between occupancy rate and budget for a hospitality venue.  
5. Explain rack rates, business rates, and leisure rates in the hospitality industry. 
6. Demonstrate knowledge of social, ethical and legal issues of the hospitality industry. 
7. Explain the legal aspects of contracts in the hospitality industry. 
8. Apply legal interpretations to employee situations, retention of records, safety and 

security issues and financial data. 
9. Demonstrate knowledge of consumer protection laws. 
10. Develop procedures for the legal review of documents and procedures, such as 

contracts. 
11. Analyze the impact of Federal, State and Local government regulations on the 

hospitality industry. 
12. Implement safety, health, and environmental controls to minimize loss and risk.  
13. Identify reasons for liability insurance and disclaimers in the hospitality industry. 
14. Analyze the importance of guest security and anonymity in the hospitality industry.  

G.    Current Hospitality Industry Trends 
1. Describe the impact of technology on the reservation business/process. 
2. Describe the latest trends and technologies affecting business travelers. 
3. Describe the latest trends affecting leisure. 
4. Describe how advances in technology allow the hospitality industry to keep up-to-date 

customer records. 
5. Explain hospitality industry processes for the collection of customer database 

information. 
6. Describe advances in technology that benefit hotel guests. The latest technology 

available to hotel guests. 
H.  Environmental, Ethical, and Global Issues for the Hospitality Industry 

1. Identify factors that encourage influence global tourism. 
2. Explain special considerations for international travelers. ADA? 
3. Describe the importance of global travel. 
4. Apply ethical conduct in dealing with international business transactions. 
5. Describe environmentally sound practices regarding guests in the hospitality industry.  
6. Describe environmentally sound practices for hospitality industry properties. 
7. Exhibit ethical and legal social behaviors when using information and technology in the 

hospitality industry and discuss the consequences of misuse.  
8. Apply a professional code of ethics to a workplace problem or issue. 
9. Explain the relationship of business ethics to product/service management. 
10. Describe the role of ethics and social responsibility on decision making in the 

hospitality industry.  
11. Explain lodging and tourism taxes imposed by states, and counties. 
12. Identify current laws and regulations that impact the hospitality industry.  
13. Explain the ripple direct and indirect effect of tourism dollars.  
14. Demonstrate the economic impact of tourism on a state’s economy. 
15. Explain the economic role played by the hospitality industry in satisfying customer 

needs and wants in a free enterprise system. 
16. Explain the importance of monitoring economic trends in the hospitality industry as it 

relates to sales strategies for different economic cycles. 
I.  Hotel Sales Process 

1. Explain strategies for increasing sales in the hospitality industry as it relates to rooms, 
commodities, attractions etc. 

2. Describe the impact of internet sales on the hospitality industry. 
3. Identify markets for potential group sales. 
4. List sales strategies for event marketing as it relates to business. 
5. List sales strategies as it relates to leisure/industrial customers. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 8 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

6. Apply the steps of the sales process in the hospitality industry. 
7. Describe different sales promotions used in the lodging industry. 
8. Identify successful strategies for the hospitality industry that are designed to generate 

repeat business. 
9. Explain how sales efforts are tied to personal service. 
10. Identify characteristics of an effective salesperson as it relates to the sale, 

communication after the sale and follow-up in the hospitality industry. 
11. Identify customer prospecting strategies for the hospitality industry. 
12. Describe elements of the hospitality sales contract. 
13. Describe effective strategies for servicing hospitality meetings and hotel individual 

guests.  
14. Describe sales strategies for economic downturns. 

J.  Manage the Strategic Plan for a Meeting or Event 
1. Develop a mission statement to specify the purpose, philosophy, and target markets 

for the event. 
2. Create goal statements to specify how the event will achieve its mission. 
3. Work with, communicate, and understand the event stakeholder goals. 
4. Conduct surveys or evaluations to improve future events. 
5. Understand the value of networking with resource people involved with previous 

hosting and event organization committees. 
6. Develop a profile of potential attendees. 
7. Identify the planning cycle, sponsorship opportunities, human resources needs, and 

marketing for an event. 
8. Compile financial information using balance sheets, income statements, cash flow 

statements, and break-even analysis. 
9. Compare the meeting event progress to the mission statement, goals, and objectives. 
10. Monitor cash flow to determine financial standing. 
11. List professional assistance available for financial management of an event. 
12. Review evaluations and feedback from previous events. 
13. Determine short- and long-term impacts of events. 
14. Comply with legislation (environmental, local zoning, human rights, health, and safety, 

labor). 
15. Integrate environmental awareness into meeting or event management. 
16. Apply conservation practices (reduce energy, reduce water consumption, minimize 

pollution. 
17. Measure the value of a business or entertainment event. 
18. Develop an event evaluation plan. 
19. Collect and understand critical benchmarks for an event. 
20. Evaluate collected event information success or failure. 
21. Develop a summary report to evaluate the event and plan for future events. 
22. Explain a risk management strategy for event management. 
23. Identify risk associated with events that require insurance. 
24. Prepare risk management strategies for events. 

K.  Project Management 
1. Develop a project plan for an event.  
2. Identify target markets, event planning tools (Gantt chart, software, etc.), stakeholder 

requirements, and processes to deliver the event. 
3. Review previous event plans. 
4. Identify financial, material, and staff resources available for an event. 
5. Develop a theme, marketing plan, and public relations plan for an event. 
6. Explain branding for an event. 
7. Determine event stakeholders’ expectations. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 9 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

8. Explain the brainstorming process for developing an event. 
9. Select cost effective strategies to carry out events. 
10. Identify specific, realistic, measurable and achievable tasks and phases required to 

meet event objectives. 
11. Develop an integrated communication plan for an event. 
12. Explain data collection and reporting procedures for events. 
13. Design event participant evaluation forms and use the feedback to improve future 

events. 
L.  Manage the Event 

1. Identify specific tasks and projects required to achieve the mission, goals, and 
objectives of an event. 

2. Prioritize tasks and projects required for an event. 
3. Set critical event timelines. 
4. Delegate tasks to specific individuals or groups based on skills or areas of expertise. 
5. Explain key elements of event contracts. 
6. Negotiate contracts that are beneficial for all parties involved. 
7. Develop a sequence of activities for an event. 
8. Implement risk management techniques and strategies to minimize disruption to event 

attendees. 
9. Explain all event procedures to personnel working the event. 
10. Maintain flow/sequence of activities during and event. 

M.  Hospitality Marketing Concepts 
1. Explain risk management for an event. 
2. Identify risks associated with an event. 
3. Determine scope and nature of legal, ethical, and regulatory obligations associated 

with an event. 
4. Describe insurance needed to cover an event. 
5. Determine what is exposed to damage, loss or liability (property, persons, cash, 

reputation, environment) 
6. Describe unexpected events. 
7. Define risk management for an event. 
8. List options to cover event risks. 
9. Identify health and safety requirements associated with an event. 
10. Establish risk management policies and procedures. 
11. Develop emergency response plans. 
12. Explain the need for law enforcement security at an event. 

N.  Develop Financial Resources 
1. Explain the sponsorship process for an event. 
2. Describe sponsorship levels. 
3. Gain support of key stakeholders for the proposed sponsorship arrangements. 
4. Identify potential sponsors. 
5. Explain sponsor benefit packages. 
6. Explain the importance of maintaining relationships with sponsors. 
7. Manage contractual fulfillment by event sponsors 
8. Identify potential donors and donor opportunities. 
9. Determine the need for donor recognition. 
10. Describe the procedure for soliciting donors. 
11. Manage the event registration process. 

O.  Manage the Event Budget 
1. Develop budget categories and format.  
2. Determine potential sources of revenue (grants, sponsorships, registration, exhibitor 

fees). 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 10 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

3. Allocate budget amounts for event activities. 
4. Establish a contingency plan and funds for the events. 
5. Specify fixed and variable costs for an event. 
6. Determine profit requirements for an event. 
7. Collect and analyze information related to current market conditions. 
8. Explain cash flow requirements for an event. 
9. Explain why budgets must be reviewed and adjusted. 
10. Revise or reallocate funds to cover unexpected expenditures or revenues. 
11. Describe security procedures for handling cash at an event. 
12. Communicate policies and procedures to staff and volunteers for an event to prevent 

theft. 
P.  Human Resources 

1. Develop selection process for staff.  
2. Describe employment conditions. 
3. Explain a job description and job requirements. 
4. Explain the methods to recruit target groups. 
5. Evaluate and adjust the interview process to select the best employees. 
6. Understand labor laws. 
7. Use effective interview protocols. 
8. Explain the reference check for potential employees. 
9. Communicate with all individuals who apply for a position. 
10. Select and retain the best employees. 

Q.  Train and Manage Staff and Volunteers 
1. Describe employee orientation.  
2. Develop an employee training program. 
3. Assess employee training needs. 
4. Describe orientation and employee training procedures. 
5. List the best strategies for delivering employee training. 
6. Determine successful training results. 
7. Create a job description. 
8. Describe strategies to motivate employees and volunteers. 
9. Design strategies to maximize employee and volunteer retention. 
10. Define the purpose of the event management team. 
11. Determine presentation indicators to evaluate employee presentation. 
12. Design exit interviews to determine the reason for employee turnover. 

R.  Manage Stakeholder Relationships 
1. Identify internal and external event stakeholders. 
2. Describe the desired impact of an event.  
3. Prioritize stakeholders according to power, influence, and interest. 
4. Recognize and integrate varied interests and goals of stakeholders. 
5. Develop a code of ethics including customer rights. 
6. Determine the best channels of communication for stakeholders. 
7. Monitor activities, products, and services offered by competitors. 
8. Ensure staff understands expectations of stakeholders. 

S.  Design the Program 
1. Create a mission statement, goals, and objectives for an event.  
2. Determine program components for the event. 
3. Evaluate previous year’s event. 
4. Identify the desired program components (speakers, entertainment, attractions, 

activities, etc.). 
5. Communicate event needs with speakers and entertainers. 
6. Match program format and outcomes to stakeholder objectives. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 11 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

7. Determine location and duration requirements for each event component. 
8. Create a program agenda. 
9. Assign agenda items to appropriate staff. 
10. Create agenda contingency plans. 

T.  Engage Speakers and Performers 
1. Determine the role of speakers and performers for an event. 
2. Match the speakers and performers to audience demographics. 
3. Create the speaker/performer contract. 
4. Communicate event expectations to the speaker/performer. 
5. Determine the logistics for the speaker/performer at the event. 

U.  Food and Beverage Sales 
1. Determine food and beverage service requirements.  
2. Offer menus that meet the customer’s dietary and budgetary needs. 
3. Plan the appropriate food service style. 
4. Select food and beverage providers. 
5. Follow rules regarding alcohol sales, group size, security requirements. 
6. Identify room set up. 
7. Address liability and insurance requirements. 

V.  Meeting Design and Layout 
1. Establish functional requirements for the event.  
2. Select décor and furnishings for the event. 
3. Coordinate meeting or event signage. 
4. Determine requirements for staging and technical equipment. 
5. Describe the role of meeting set-up companies. 
6. Install staging and technical equipment. 
7. Manage and oversee technical production operation. 

W.  Managing Movement of Attendees 
1. Develop admittance credential systems.  
2. Select crowd management techniques. 
3. Understand event protocol (titles, invitations, reception room, seating arrangements, 

introductions, security). 
X.  Event Site Selection and Management 

1. Determine site specifications. 
2. Identify and inspect sites. 
3. Design the site layout. 
4. Create logistics action plan for site set-up and take-down. 
5. Set up the site. 
6. Monitor the site during the event. 
7. Take down the site. 

Y.  Marketing the Event 
1. Conduct a situational analysis.  
2. Define target market segments. 
3. Develop branding for an event. 
4. Select marketing distribution channels. 
5. Develop an integrated marketing strategy for the event. 
6. Implement the marketing plan. 
7. Determine needed marketing materials for an event. 
8. Develop content and design parameters for an event. 
9. Produce marketing materials for an event. 
10. Develop the advertising plan for an event. 
11. Coordinate sales promotions for events. 
12. Tie the event to a public relations campaign. 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 12 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

13. Develop a media relations plan for an event. 
14. Develop the sales plan for the event. 
15. Conduct sales activities. 
16. Determine different sales platforms for events. 

Z.  Communication and Professionalism 
1. Define the effective elements of communication.  
2. Establish lines of communication for effective events. 
3. Define communication procedures and protocols. 
4. Communicate verbally and in writing. 
5. Use communication tools/equipment effectively. 
6. Make effective presentations. 
7. Plan and conduct meetings. 
8. Establish and conduct business relationships. 
9. Project a professional image. 
10. Describe effective leadership. 
11. Demonstrate ethical behavior. 
12. Work effectively in a diverse environment. 
13. Define time management. 
14. List stress management techniques. 
15. Identify issues and assess time constraints. 
16. Identify and investigate problems. 
17. Participate in professional development activities. 

 
 
 
 
 
  

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 13 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 
Hospitality & Event Management Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Below Exceeds Points 
Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and Demonstrates 
expertise of role play 

Demonstrates understanding of role play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides 
sis AND synopsis AND 

the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synop
defines the problem(s) definition of the  

problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) problem(s) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Alternative(s) given atives 
No alternatives but pro(s) and/or At least two alternatives Multiple altern

given and multiple 
Identifies alternatives and the identified con(s) are not given, and pro(s) and pros and cons 

pro(s) and con(s) of each  
analyzed con(s) are analyzed analyzed for each 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Feasible solution and 
No solution Solution provided, Logical solution and implementation plan 

Identifies logical solution and identified but implementation implementation plan developed, and 
aspects of implementation plan not developed provided and developed necessary resources  

identified 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Demonstrates knowledge and  

understanding of the event 
knowledge areas: 

 
Manage strategic plan / hospitality 

marketing concepts / markets & 
customers / operation & 

management / customer service / 
human resources / hotel sales / 
project management / financial 

resources / meeting design & No knowledge areas One or two our or more 
layout / site selection & demonstrated knowledge areas Three knowledge areas F

knowledge areas are 
management / marketing / are demonstrated are demonstrated demonstrated 

communication & professionalism 
/ legal issues, financial 

management & budgeting / current 
trends / environmental, ethical, & 

global issues / train & manage staff 
& volunteers / design the program 

/ manage stakeholder 
relationships / engage speakers & 

performers / food & beverage sales 
/ managing movement of attendees 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

 
Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed 

Statements are well-organized not appear prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in in a logical sequence; 

and clearly stated prepared was not logical logical sequence statements were well 
organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
 

Demonstrated 1-2 of 

Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed skills Demonstrated 3 of the 
(confidence, body listed skills (confidence, Demonstrated all 

confidence, poised body any of the listed language, eye body language, eye skills, enhancing the 
language, engaging eye contact, skills contact, or voice contact, or voice overall presentation 
and effective voice projection. projection) projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 14 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Hospitality & Event Management 

Expectation Item Not Below 
 Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Points 

 
 Expectations Earned 

Interacted with the  
Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 

Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions of completely 
effectively answer questions answering questions 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

 
Presentation Total (100 points) 

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Hospitality & Event Management - Page 15 of 15 – Updated January 2026  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.