2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

 
Human Resource Management challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of key 
HR functions, including staffing, training, employee relations, and performance management. 
Through an objective test, members explore how effective human resource practices support 
organizational success and employee development. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Staff Test Composition
• Training and Development 

30
• Employee Compensation and Benefits 
• 20

Performance Management  
• Government Relations and Issues 10

• Human Resource Planning 0
• Labor Relations and Collective 

Bargaining 
 
 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Human Resource Management - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Human Resource Management - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Human Resource Management - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Human Resource Management - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Staff 

1. Explain the importance of employee confidentiality. 
2. Define transitional employees and strategies to meet their special needs. 
3. Explain the planning techniques used in the hiring process (forecasting, 

succession, planning). 
4. Describe the stages of job analysis. 
5. Explain the role of labor market statistics on the recruitment process. 
6. Define effective recruitment strategies to hire the best qualified employees. 
7. Define team recruiting. 
8. Describe the employee selection process. 
9. Describe testing, interviewing, and legal issues associated with employee 

selection. 
10. Explain the validity and importance of reference checks for the employee 

selection process. 
11. Describe effective questions for the interview process. 
12. Define contingency factors (background check, physical results) associated 

with the job offer. 
13. Define outsourcing and its impact on personnel. 
14. Define the role of Affirmative Action in the employee selection process. 
15. Explain the impact of Equal Employment Opportunity legislation for women, 

minorities, and handicapped. 
16. Describe strategies to attract and keep the top talent. 
17. Explain factors associated with employee job satisfaction.  

B. Training and Development 
1. Explain the importance of training to maintain the competitive advantage. 
2. Define the importance of orientation and training for employees. 
3. Describe planning and implementation of an employee training program. 
4. Determine organization and employee needs to develop appropriate training. 
5. Define needs analysis and its relationship to hiring employees. 
6. Determine trainee problems and develop solutions. 
7. Develop strategies to reduce employee/trainee conflict. 
8. Recognize different learning styles when creating training. 
9. Set objectives that are observable, measurable, attainable, and specific. 
10. Explain how effective training curriculum is impacted by internal and external 

sources. 
11. Explain the impact of technology and visual aids on effective training plans. 
12. Administer training delivery that focuses on the needs of trainees. 
13. Define strategies for evaluation and improving the delivery of training. 
14. Explain the latest training and development trends. 
15. Explain the long-term benefits of employee professional development. 
16. Identify online training resources. 
17. Define human resource safety and security programs that are in compliance 

with laws and regulations. 
18. Describe evaluation processes to evaluate training programs. 

 

Human Resource Management - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

C. Employee Compensation and Benefits 
1. Define legal aspects of employee compensation and payroll deductions. 
2. List legally required benefits that employers must provide to employees. 
3. Describe discretionary fringe benefits. 
4. Define perception of fair compensation and its impact on employee 

productivity. 
5. Explain the impact of rising health care costs and increased compensation 

expectations of employees. 
6. Calculate dollar, average, and percentage labor costs. 
7. Calculate dollar, average, and percentage benefit costs. 
8. Explain how labor costs affect break-even point. 
9. Explain a salary schedule. 
10. Explain variable pay based upon level of performance. 
11. Define types of benefits provided by employers. 
12. Explain the difference between broad branding, strategic compensation, and 

comparable worth. 
13. Define piecework plan, merit pay, and employe reward program. 
14. Describe how pay rates are calculated. 
15. Explain team-based compensation plans. 
16. Define social security, unemployment compensation, and worker’s 

compensation benefits. 
D. Performance Management 

1. Define coaching, counseling, and discipline in the employer/employee 
relationship. 

2. Explain the importance of active listening. 
3. Describe how influence increases performance. 
4. Explain the importance of employer and employee feedback. 
5. List the steps in the counseling process. 
6. Describe counseling methods and techniques associated with the counseling 

process.  
7. Explain the relationship between deficiency in knowledge and deficiency in 

execution. 
8. Explain how performance problems are related to personal problems. 
9. Explain how deficiency of knowledge relates to deficiency in execution. 
10. Explain the importance of employee agreement to change. 
11. Identify the purpose and components of performance management systems. 
12. Explain the steps in the appraisal process. 
13. Explain the advantages and disadvantages of an appraisal system. 
14. Differentiate types and purposes of performance appraisals. 
15. Describe strategies to improve employee morale and motivation resulting in 

increased productivity. 
16. Describe employee behavior that requires disciplinary action. 
17. Explain disciplinary techniques to address employee behavior. 
18. Describe legal issues associated with employee discipline. 
19. Describe best human resource practices for positive financial results. 
20. Define effective performance management systems. 

Human Resource Management - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

E. Government Relations and Issues  
1. Describe personnel laws. 
2. Differentiate between equal employment and Equal Employment Opportunity 

Act.  
3. Define types of sexual, hostile environment, discrimination, and reverse 

discrimination. 
4. Explain the requirement for verification of employability under IRCA and 

describe penalties for noncompliance. 
5. Explain Affirmative Action. 
6. Describe a human resource Code of Ethics for employees. 
7. Define employee rights and responsibilities. 
8. Describe habitual employee handicaps (tobacco, drugs, alcohol). 
9. Differentiate between exempt and non-exempt employees. 
10. Define an independent contractor. 
11. Define defamation, disclosure, and negligent hiring. 
12. Explain the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). 
13. Explain OSHA requirements. 
14. Explain requirements of ADEA and its impact on early retirement programs. 
15. Explain Family Medical Leave Act, Worker Adjustment and Retraining Act, Older 

Worker Benefit Protection Act, and Retirement Security Act. 
16. Define the Americans with Disabilities Act and accommodations made by 

employers. 
17. Define work-related injuries covered by Worker’s Compensation. 
18. Define the role of the National Labor Relations Act. 
19. Explain workplace violence and the need for security programs. 
20. Define the Privacy Act of 1974 and its impact on Human Resources 

management. 
21. Explain the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988. 

F. Human Resource Planning 
1. Define human resource planning.  
2. Explain the role of human resources in a comprehensive planning process. 
3. Describe the goals and policies within human resources. 
4. Explain the importance of teams at work. 
5. Recognize the role of diversity in an organization. 
6. Evaluate and update human resource policies. 
7. Identify human resource challenges and possible remedies. 
8. Identify latest human resource trends impacted by work from home, flexible 

scheduling, job sharing, etc. 
9. Explain human resources’ role for maintaining a company code of ethics. 
10. Discuss how changes in technology, workforce diversity, skill requirements, and 

world issues impact human resources. 
G. Labor Relations and Collective Bargaining 

1. Develop a timeline for the history of management-labor relations. 
2. Compare adversarial and cooperative approaches to labor relations. 
3. Describe labor legislation (Wagner Act, Taft-Hartley Act). 
4. Describe case laws the prohibit certain acts by organized labor. 

Human Resource Management - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Human Resource Management 

5. Describe case laws that prohibit certain acts by management. 
6. List the steps of organizing a labor union. 
7. Explain the employee grievance process. 
8. Describe the negotiation process and binging arbitration. 
9. Explain the role of the National Labor Relations Board. 
10. List the steps of collective bargaining. 
11. Define impasse and labor strike. 
12. Define unions, mediation, and arbitration. 
13. Explain the goal of management when negotiating with labor. 
14. List the goals, structure, and management of labor unions. 

Human Resource Management - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.