2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
Introduction to Business Procedures challenges members to demonstrate their understanding 
of basic office procedures and workplace practices through an objective test. This event 
introduces members to topics such as administrative tasks, business protocols, and decision-
making in a professional environment. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School (9th & 10th graders only) 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Human Relations  Test Composition
• Technology Concepts 16
• Communication Skills 14

12
• Decision Making/Management 10
• Career Development 8

6
• Business Operations 4

2
• Database/Information 0

Management 
• Ethics/Safety 
• Finance 
• Information Processing 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 
 

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Human Relations 

1. Identify appropriate work habits and ethics including appropriate dress. 
2. Identify, evaluate, and select training resources for employee training programs. 
3. Develop/explain work processes and procedures (organizational and prioritizing 

skills). 
4. Coordinate staff work schedule and workload distribution. 
5. Contribute to development of job descriptions for staff. 
6. Discuss and analyze an employee performance evaluation. 
7. Maintain employee records. 
8. Update policy and procedures manual. 
9. Conduct new employee orientation and employee training. 
10. Create and maintain effective and productive work relationships. 
11. Work in a team to solve problems and share knowledge. 
12. Exhibit behaviors and actions to effectively motivate and lead people. 

B. Technology Concepts 
1. Conduct a needs assessment of hardware, software, furniture, equipment, and 

supplies. 
2. Evaluate and recommend hardware, vendors, warranties, and purchasing options to 

solve specific problems. 
3. Remove, upgrade, store, and install computer hardware and supportive software. 
4. Navigate the basic operating system and internet applications. 
5. Manage files and folders. 
6. Identify and use appropriate help resources to learn software and hardware and to 

solve problems (e.g., help desks, online help, and manuals). 
7. Select and apply the appropriate productivity software to complete tasks. 
8. Identify, evaluate, and select software specific to an organizational function and/or 

industry. 
9. Select and apply multimedia software appropriate for specific tasks. 

C.  Communication Skills 
1. Compose, give, and follow oral and written instructions. 
2. Identify good listening skills. 
3. Interpret verbal and nonverbal cues/behaviors to enhance communication. 
4. Locate/maintain telephone numbers and addresses. 
5. Identify proper techniques for answering, screening, and placing calls, including 

conference calls. 
6. Identify proper techniques for placing a caller on hold, transferring a call, and/or 

taking a message. 
7. Identify, analyze, and evaluate emerging communications technologies for use in 

organizations. 
8. Process electronic communications (e.g., fax, e-mail, file transmissions). 
9. Prepare and deliver oral presentations. 
10. Receive/greet visitors and clients; make introductions, and direct inquiries. 
11. Locate, organize, and reference information from a variety of sources to 

communicate with co-workers and customers/clients. 
12. Communicate with customers and other employees to foster positive relations, 

clarify workplace objectives, and provide feedback. 
13. Compose business documents such as agendas, reports, and correspondence. 

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
14. Develop and interpret tables, charts, and figures to support written and oral 

communications. 
D.  Decision Making/Management 

1. Identify different types of leadership styles and describe characteristics of effective 
leaders. 

2. Identify the functions of management. 
3. List the responsibilities involved at the different levels of management. 
4. Interpret an organizational chart. 
5. Set priorities and develop efficient procedures for workflow and monitor workloads. 
6. Develop efficient office teams and apply skills to assigned activities and to resolve 

conflicts. 
7. Examine potential problems facing business and offer alternative solutions including 

contingency plans. 
8. Acquire, analyze, access, exchange, organize, and synthesize information to guide 

business decision making and to increase workplace efficiency and effectiveness. 
9. Identify, write, and monitor workplace performance goals to guide progress in 

assigned areas of responsibility and accountability. 
10. Manage quality-control processes to minimize errors and to expedite workflow. 

E. Career Development 
1. Explore business careers and examine job opportunities through various sources, 

including newspapers, employment agencies, personal inquiries, and the Internet. 
2. Develop a career plan. 
3. Prepare a letter of application, resume, employment application, and follow-up 

letter. 
4. Identify behaviors considered to be appropriate or inappropriate in a job interview. 
5. Identify the steps to follow in resigning from a position. 
6. Develop and maintain a portfolio and personal professional documents and 

certifications. 
7. Identify potential employment barriers for nontraditional groups and ways to 

overcome the barriers. 
8. Utilize career-advancement activities to enhance professional development. 

F.  Business Operations 
1. Identify characteristics of an efficiently organized workstation and recommend 

improvements in physical layout. 
2. Make decisions on best reprographics methods to use for a specific task including 

appropriate paper. 
3. Process incoming and outgoing mail, including electronic mail. 
4. Identify and coordinate special mail services and alternative courier and electronic 

mail services. 
5. Arrange and coordinate travel arrangements for supervisor or staff (e.g., 

reservations, itinerary). 
6. Demonstrate time management skills. 
7. Coordinate meetings, events, and activities related to the office. 
8. Use Personal Information Management applications (notes, calendars, contact 

information) to increase workplace efficiency and to facilitate on-time, prompt 
completion of work activities. 

9. Establish procedures to maintain workstation, equipment, materials, and supplies. 
10. Troubleshoot problems with office equipment to make repairs and/or to obtain 

technical support. 
Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
11. Maintain office equipment such as printers, copiers, and fax machines (add toner, 

load paper, clear paper path, change cartridge). 
12. Manage preventive maintenance and repair of equipment. 
13. Implement processes for purchasing business supplies, equipment, and services. 
14. Identify types of business ownership. 

G.  Database/Information Management 
1. Establish and maintain document and information storage and retrieval system. 
2. Prepare and maintain an inventory record of software, furniture, hardware, 

equipment, and supplies. 
3. Maintain (index, code, sort, and file) alphabetical, subject, numerical, and 

chronological filing system and retrieve information from files. 
4. Maintain tickler file system and retrieve information from files. 
5. Maintain reference library, clippings, and historical records. 
6. Purge records and/or files. 
7. Convert and save data using scanning equipment. 

H.  Ethics/Safety 
1. Identify major causes of office-related accidents and establish safety and security 

measures to maintain office safety. 
2. Adhere to privacy, safety and security policies and legislation (e.g., acceptable use 

policy, Web page policies, student photo policies, computer crime, fraud, abuse). 
3. Implement organizational policies and procedures for security, privacy, and risk 

management. 
4. Demonstrate knowledge of an emergency/disaster plan. 
5. Discuss basic issues related to responsible use of technology and describe personal 

or legal consequences of inappropriate use. 
6. Identify confidentiality concepts and policies in an office. 
7. Identify characteristics of professional conduct and work ethics (integrity, loyalty, 

honesty, courtesy, etc.). 
8. Analyze various ethical issues and problems related to the office including 

acceptable/unacceptable office behavior. 
9. Examine factors related to ergonomics and its importance to the office worker. 
10. Read, interpret, and adhere to software license agreements and legal mandates (e.g., 

ADA, Sarbanne-Oxly). 
I.  Finance 

1. Prepare banking transactions (deposit slips, reconcile bank statement, etc.). 
2. Use manual and electronic methods to complete payroll documents and other 

financial transactions. 
3. Apply uses of calculator or computer numeric keypad in solving business problems. 
4. Develop budgets for office and/or specific events and manage expenses. 
5. Complete purchase requisitions and vouchers for payment. 
6. Implement expense-control strategies to enhance a business’s financial well-being 

(budgets, expenses, contracts). 
7. Manage business records to maintain needed documentation. 
8. Record transactions to manage cash fund accounts such as petty cash. 
9. General finance terms and conditions. 

J.  Information Processing 
1. Utilize software to revise, edit, save, and output documents. 

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Procedures 

 
2. Transcribe business correspondence (correspondence, reports, minutes of 

meetings, etc.). 
3. Dictate notes and correspondence. 
4. Create and format tables, charts, and graphs. 
5. Perform a variety of word processing functions (merge text, sort data, 

search/replace data, create macros, use templates, etc.). 
6. Convert document from one operating system to another or one software program 

to another. 
7. Create, edit, and enhance spreadsheets. 
8. Create and edit a database. 
9. Extract useful information using search queries and generate reports. 
10. Integrate database, spreadsheet, graphic, and word processing files. 
11. Complete preprinted and electronic forms (applications, invoices, purchase orders, 

purchase invoices, checks, credit memos, and labels). 
12. Scan documents, data, or graphics for document use. 
13. Proofread and edit documents for accuracy and content, grammar, spelling, and 

punctuation. 
14. Develop a presentation and/or visual aids that include multiple slides with text and 

graphics. 
15. Demonstrate ability to use office and online references. 
16. Employ collaborative/groupware applications to facilitate group work (shared files, 

instant messaging, or virtual meetings). 
17. Reproduce and distribute documents and information. 

 

Introduction to Business Procedures - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.