2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
Introduction to Business Communication challenges members to demonstrate their 
understanding of fundamental communication skills in a business setting through an objective 
test. This event introduces concepts such as written and verbal communication, digital 
messaging, and professional etiquette used to share information within and outside an 
organization. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School (9th & 10th graders only) 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Marketing & Sales 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Grammar  
• Punctuation & Capitalization 
• Spelling Test Composition
• Proofreading & Editing 30
• Word Definition & Usage 20
• Oral Communication Concepts 10

• Reading Comprehension 0

 
Test questions are based on the 
knowledge areas and objectives outlined 
for this event. Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Introduction to Business Communication - Page 1 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Introduction to Business Communication - Page 2 of 7 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Introduction to Business Communication - Page 3 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Introduction to Business Communication - Page 4 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Grammar 

1. Describe and identify the eight parts of speech in context sentences. 
2. Identify the difference between adverbs and adjectives. 
3. Identify the categories of pronouns and uses of reflexive pronouns. 
4. Identify features of prepositions and uses of prepositional phrases. 
5. Identify types of conjunctions. 
6. Use a verb that correctly agrees with the subject of a sentence. 
7. Describe the types of verbs and demonstrate the six tenses. 
8. Use irregular verbs and their different forms properly and distinguish between 

transitive and intransitive verbs. 
9. Identify subjects, predicates, verbs, adverbs, pronouns, direct and indirect objects, 

and prepositional and infinitive phrases in sentences. 
10. Select pronouns properly and use them correctly in a sentence. 
11. Correctly use a possessive noun in a sentence. 
12. Create the plural form of a noun. 
13. Identify and correct misplaced and dangling modifiers. 
14. Describe and write the four kinds of sentences—declarative, interrogative, 

imperative, and exclamatory. 
15. Recognize types of sentence fragments, run-on sentences, and double negatives. 
16. Recognize and correct problems in grammar and usage including, but not limited to, 

completeness, agreement, reference, and form. 
17. Write clear, descriptive sentences in a variety of sentence patterns (e.g., simple, 

compound, complex, and compound-complex). 
18. Write logical, coherent phrases, sentences, and paragraphs, incorporating correct 

spelling, grammar, and punctuation. 
B. Punctuation and Capitalization 

1. Determine appropriate use of periods, question marks, and exclamation points. 
2. Explain the use of commas, colons, and semicolons. 
3. Recognize and correct problems in punctuation including, but not limited to, 

commas, semicolons, and apostrophes. 
4. Use apostrophes to indicate contractions and possessive constructions. 
5. Use quotation marks to set off the words of a speaker or writer and to set off titles 

of short works and use punctuation with quotation marks. 
6. Define the grammatical rules that govern the use of special punctuation marks such 

as the dash, hyphen, and parentheses. 
7. Use appropriately ellipsis, italics, and underlining.  
8. Identify how to capitalize sentences, proper nouns, abbreviations, adjectives, and 

titles correctly. 
9. Write and use numbers according to standard practice in a sentence. 

C. Spelling 
1. Illustrate the ability to correctly spell the words regularly used in writing. 
2. Illustrate the ability to use a dictionary and thesaurus as an aid to spelling, 

pronunciation, and meaning. 
3. Identify prefixes and suffixes. 
4. Explain plural spelling rules. 
5. Apply spelling rules to homonyms and commonly confusing words such as effect and 

affect. 
6. Find silent letters in a word. 

Introduction to Business Communication - Page 5 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
7. Recognize letter patterns in words. 
8. Demonstrate application of spelling rules such as i before e, silent e, words ending in 

y, etc. 
D. Proofreading & Editing 

1. Proofread a paragraph and identify spelling, grammatical, and punctuation errors. 
2. Proofread written communications with errors, using proofreader’s marks. 
3. Compare drafts to final documents and make editorial changes. 
4. Proofread and edit business documents to ensure they are clear, correct, concise, 

complete, consistent, and courteous.  
5. Review sentence structure and the style of writing. 
6. Review and edit for the effectiveness of word choices. 

E. Word Definition and Usage 
1. Deduce the meanings of words and idiomatic phrases.  
2. Recognize how word selection and usage affects communication. 
3. Recognize slang, jargon, and clichés. 
4. Recognize common errors in word usage. 
5. Use proper sentence structure. 
6. Illustrate the proper way to divide words. 
7. Identify homophones. 
8. Create new words using root words. 
9. Illustrate the ability to use a dictionary and thesaurus as an aid to spelling, 

pronunciation, and meaning. 
10. Use contextual clues to recognize word meaning. 

F. Oral Communication Concepts 
1. Use bias-free language (e.g., gender, race, religion, physical challenges, and sexual 

orientation) 
2. Illustrate sensitivity to audience needs and desires. 
3. Differentiate between pronunciation and enunciation. 
4. Correctly choose and pronounce words used in verbal communication. 
5. Provide a clear description of a simple system or process or give clear, concise 

directions. 
6. Use proper techniques to make an oral presentation. 
7. Express opinions and discuss issues positively and tactfully. 
8. Identify major listening barriers and effective active listening techniques. 
9. Ask questions to clarify information. 
10. Interpret nonverbal cues in messages. 
11. Follow spoken directions. 
12. Listen objectively and record major points of a speaker’s message. 

G. Reading Comprehension 
1. Read and follow directions. 
2. Demonstrate reading comprehension by restating or summarizing. 
3. Differentiate between fact and opinion. 
4. Determine if a text is descriptive, informative, instructional, or persuasive. 
5. Summarize the important points of a document. 
6. Identify and explain enhancements such as graphs, charts, tables, and 

illustrations/photographs for visual impact. 
7. Interpret information from articles, manuals, etc. 
8. Select the appropriate reading method (e.g., skimming, scanning, speed-reading, 

and in-depth reading) for a particular situation. 
Introduction to Business Communication - Page 6 of 7 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Business Communication 

 
9. Identify factors that affect readability of text (e.g., sentence length, word selection, 

and type size). 
10. Investigate the need for various reading skills in the workplace such as reading for 

information, summarization, drawing conclusions, making judgments, and following 
directions. 

11. Evaluate the quality and reliability of source information. 
12. Analyze information presented in a variety of formats such as tables, lists, and 

figures. 
13. Use note-taking skills that incorporate critical listening and reading techniques. 

 
 

Introduction to Business Communication - Page 7 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.