2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

 
Management Information Systems challenges members to apply their knowledge of how 
businesses use technology to manage information and support decision-making. Through an 
objective test and a role play scenario, members analyze a small business’s environment and 
recommend effective information system solutions. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Systems Design and Analysis Test Composition
• Object Oriented Programming 

Concepts  30
• Data and Information Management  25

• IT Project Management  20
15

• IT Infrastructure  10
• Emerging Business Technologies  5

 0
Test questions and role plays are based on 
the knowledge statements and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed objectives 
can be found in the study guide included 
in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Management Information Systems - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play  
problem/scenario 

• Flip chart 
paper/markers 

• Easel for placement 
of flipchart during 
presentation 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

Management Information Systems - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

 

Management Information Systems - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

 
Role Play Prompt  

• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a management information 
system–related scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation 
time. This copy must be shared among team members and may only be accessed 
within the designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 

Management Information Systems - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 
 

Sample Preparation Resources 
• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 

items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Management Information Systems - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Systems Design and Analysis (25 test items) 

1. Describe typical phases of the Systems Development Life Cycle 
2. Discuss methods for gathering and analyzing system requirements 
3. Discuss the Agile methodology for software and project management 
4. Discuss the Waterfall model of software and project management 
5. Determine appropriate features for a new system based on gathered requirements 
6. Describe the use of feasibility studies for financial, technical, and organizational 

analysis 
7. Describe terms related to system design (e.g., input, output, controls, procedures) 
8. Distinguish between validation and verification of a system 
9. Describe the roles of stakeholders, end users, managers, and developers in system 

development 
10. Discuss workflow artifacts used in system design and analysis (e.g., dataflow diagrams, 

entity relationship diagrams, class diagrams) 
 
Object Oriented Programming Concepts (15 test items) 

1. Describe features of object-oriented programming (OOP) languages (e.g., classes, 
objects, libraries) 

2. Explain how business requirements can be translated into classes and functions 
3. Describe key features of object-oriented programming (e.g., encapsulation, 

abstraction, polymorphism, inheritance) 
4. Discuss the use and creation of libraries for software development 
5. Distinguish between classes, objects, methods, and attributes 
6. Identify modern OOP languages and frameworks 
7. Analyze the benefits and drawbacks of OOP 

 
Data and Information Management (15 test items) 

1. Translate simple user stories and requirements into SQL statements 
2. Describe terms related to relational database structure (e.g., relations, tuples, fields, 

records, keys) 
3. Evaluate database schemas based on business requirements 
4. Describe the importance of data redundancy 
5. Describe best practices for data security and integrity (e.g., encryption, access 

control) 
6. Describe NoSQL databases 
7. Discuss the pros and cons of data storage methods (e.g., local, cloud, hybrid) 
8. Discuss the use of structured, unstructured, and semi-structured data for business 

intelligence and decision making 
9. Describe the use of Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) 

 
IT Project Management (15 test items)  

1. Describe the use of Agile principles in information systems development 
2. Describe the processes of Scrum methodology for managing information systems 

projects 
3. Describe the use of Waterfall methodology in information systems development 
4. Discuss Agile methodology tenants (e.g., individuals and interactions, working 

software) 

Management Information Systems - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 

5. Select an appropriate methodology for a software or IT project 
6. Discuss the consequences of poor IT project management on budget, schedule, and 

performance (e.g., runaway projects) 
7. Discuss the steps of the project life cycle 
8. Describe the use of work products and tools for project management (e.g., kanban 

boards, user stories, spreadsheets) 
9. Discuss the roles of end users and stakeholders in IT project development 

 
IT Infrastructure (15 test items) 

1. Describe the importance of IT infrastructure to business processes 
2. Describe components of IT infrastructure (e.g., hardware, software, network 

components) 
3. Describe how cloud and virtual components contribute to IT infrastructure 
4. Discuss the business value of secure IT infrastructure 
5. Describe the benefits of cloud-based architecture for businesses 
6. Discuss the performance and cost tradeoffs of network topologies (e.g., mesh, star, 

bus) 
7. Identify layers of the OSI and TCP/IP model 
8. Describe services that contribute to business IT infrastructure (e.g., computing 

platforms, telecommunications services, data management services) 
9. Discuss how to avoid common IT security vulnerabilities (e.g., authentication, 

authorization, access control) 
 
Emerging Business Technologies (15 test items) 

1. Discuss the effects of automation on businesses 
2. Discuss the uses of artificial intelligence for businesses (e.g., customer support, 

automation, data insights) 
3. Explain core characteristics of blockchain technology 
4. Discuss the uses of blockchain for data security and integrity 
5. Describe the Internet of Things (IoT) 
6. Describe the characteristics of the cloud 
7. Identify cloud-based applications and services (e.g., SaaS, IaaS, AWS, Canva) 

 
References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

 
Association for Computing Machinery. IS2020 A Competency Model for Undergraduate Programs in Information 

Systems. https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/curricula-
recommendations/is2020.pdf  

Coursera. What is MIS (Management Information Systems)? Degree Guide. https://www.coursera.org/articles/mis  

GeeksforGeeks. Management information system (MIS). https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/computer-organization-
architecture/management-information-system-mis/  

Laudon, K., and Laudon, J. Management Information Systems (Fifteenth Edition). 
https://industri.fatek.unpatti.ac.id/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/188-Management-Information-
Systems-Managing-the-Digital-Firm-Kenneth-C.-Laudon-Jane-P.-Laudon-Edisi-15-2017.pdf   

Cohesity. Unlocking the power of the management information system. 
https://www.cohesity.com/glossary/management-information-system/   

Tutorials Point. MIS – Introduction. 
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/management_information_system/management_information_system.ht
m   

Management Information Systems - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Management Information Systems 
Management Information Systems Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Below xceeds Points 
Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations E

Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and Demonstrates 
expertise of role play 

Demonstrates understanding of role play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides 
is AND synopsis AND 

the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synops
defines the problem(s) definition of the  

problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) problem(s) 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Alternative(s) given tives 
No alternatives but pro(s) and/or At least two alternatives Multiple alterna

given and multiple 
Identifies alternatives and the identified con(s) are not given, and pro(s) and pros and cons 

pro(s) and con(s) of each  
analyzed con(s) are analyzed analyzed for each 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Feasible solution and 

No solution Solution provided, Logical solution and implementation plan 
Identifies logical solution and identified but implementation implementation plan developed, and 

aspects of implementation plan not developed provided and developed necessary resources  
identified 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Demonstrates knowledge and  

understanding of the event 
knowledge areas: 

 
Systems Design and Analysis / No knowledge areas One or two Three knowledge areas Four or more 

Object Oriented Programming demonstrated knowledge areas 
are demonstrated are demonstrated knowledge areas are 

demonstrated 
Concepts / Data and Information 

Management / IT Project 
Management / IT Infrastructure / 
Emerging Business Technologies 

 0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed 
Statements are well-organized not appear prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in in a logical sequence; 

ents were well 
and clearly stated prepared was not logical logical sequence statem  

organized 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of 
kills Demonstrated 3 of the 

Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed s
(confidence, body listed skills (confidence, Demonstrated all 

confidence, poised body any of the listed language, eye body language, eye skills, enhancing the 
language, engaging eye contact, skills contact, or voice contact, or voice overall presentation  
and effective voice projection. projection) projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Interacted with the  

Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 
Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions of completely 

effectively answer questions answering questions 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  
 

Presentation Total (100 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 
 
 
 
 

 
Management Information Systems - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.