2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

 
Marketing challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of marketing concepts and 
strategies through an objective test and a role play scenario. Members apply their knowledge in 
areas such as market research, branding, promotion, and customer engagement to solve real-
world business challenges. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Marketing & Sales 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Marketing Fundamentals  
• Market Planning  Test Composition
• Marketing-Information 30

Management  25
• Product/Service Management  20
• Channel Management  15
• Pricing  10

• Promotion  5
0

• Selling  
 
Test questions and role plays are based on 
the knowledge statements and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed objectives 
can be found in the study guide included 
in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Marketing - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play  
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

Marketing - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a marketing–related scenario or 

problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy must be 
shared among team members and may only be accessed within the designated 
preparation area. 

Marketing - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

 
Notecard Use 

• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 
presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 

Marketing - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Marketing - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
Marketing Fundamentals (10 test items) 

1. Explain marketing and its importance in a global economy (MK:001, LAP-MK-901) (CS) 
2. Explain the need for professional and ethical standards in marketing (PD:137) (SP)  
3. Discuss actions employees can take to achieve the company’s desired results (MK:015, 

LAP-MK-015) (SP) 
4. Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior (MK:014, LAP-

MK-014) (SP) 
5. Describe connections between company actions and results (e.g., influencing 

consumer buying behavior, gaining market share, etc.) (MK:019, LAP-MK-019) (SP) 
 
Market Planning (10 test items) 

1. Explain the concept of marketing strategies (MP:001, LAP-MP-001) (CS) 
2. Explain the concept of market and market identification (MP:003, LAP-MP-003) (CS) 
3. Explain the nature of marketing planning (MP:006) (SP) 
4. Explain the nature of marketing plans (MP:007, LAP-MP-007) (SP) 
5. Explain the role of situation analysis in the marketing planning process (MP:008) (SP) 

 
Marketing-Information Management (15 test items) 

1. Identify data monitored for marketing decision making (IM:184, LAP-IM-184) (SP) 
2. Explain the nature and scope of the marketing-information management function 

(IM:001, LAP-IM-001) (SP) 
3. Explain the role of ethics in marketing-information management (IM:025, LAP-IM-025) 

(SP) 
4. Explain the nature of marketing research (IM:010, LAP-IM-010) (SP) 
5. Describe options businesses use to obtain marketing research data (i.e., primary and 

secondary research) (IM:281, LAP-IM-281) (SP) 
6. Describe data-collection methods (e.g., observations, mail, diaries, phone, internet, 

discussion groups, interviews, scanners, tracking tools) (IM:289, LAP-IM-289) (SP) 
 
Product/Service Management (25 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function (PM:001, 
LAP-PM-001) (SP) 

2. Explain business ethics in product/service management (PM:040, LAP-PM-040) (SP) 
3. Identify the impact of product life cycles on marketing decisions (PM:024, LAP-PM-

024) (SP) 
4. Identify consumer protection provisions of appropriate agencies (PM:017, LAP-PM-917) 

(SP) 
5. Explain the concept of the product mix (PM:003, LAP-PM-003) (SP) 
6. Describe the nature of product bundling (PM:041) (SP) 
7. Explain the nature of corporate branding (PM:206, LAP-PM-206) (SP) 
8. Describe factors used by businesses to position corporate brands (PM:207) (SP) 
9. Describe factors used by marketers to position products/services (PM:042, LAP-PM-

042) (SP) 
10. Explain the nature of product/service branding (PM:021, LAP-PM-021) (SP) 

 
Channel Management (10 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of channel management (CM:001, LAP-CM-001) (CS) 
2. Explain the nature of channels of distribution (CM:003, LAP-CM-003) (CS) 
3. Describe ethical considerations in channel management (CM:006, LAP-CM-006) (SP) 

Marketing - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 

 
Pricing (10 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function (PI:001, LAP-PI-001) (SP) 
2. Describe the role of business ethics in pricing (PI:015, LAP-PI-015) (SP) 
3. Explain factors affecting pricing decisions (PI:002, LAP-PI-902) (SP) 

 
Promotion (10 test items) 

1. Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function (PR:001, LAP-PR-901) (CS) 
2. Identify the elements of the promotional mix (PR:003, LAP-PR-903) (SP) 
3. Describe the use of business ethics in promotion (PR:099, LAP-PR-099) (SP) 
4. Explain types of advertising media (PR:007, LAP-PR-007) (SP) 

 
Selling (10 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of the selling function (SE:017, LAP-SE-017) (CS) 
2. Explain legal and ethical considerations in selling (SE:106, LAP-SE-106) (SP) 
3. Describe the use of technology in the selling function (SE:107) (SP) 
4. Acquire product information for use in selling (SE:062, LAP-SE-062) (CS) 
5. Analyze product information to identify product features and benefits (SE:109, LAP-

SE-109) (SP) 
 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

American Marketing Association. Definitions of marketing. https://www.ama.org/the-definition-of-
marketing-what-is-marketing/  

HubSpot. What is marketing, and what’s its purpose?  https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/what-is-
marketing  

Investopedia. Understanding marketing in business: Key strategies and types. 
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/marketing.asp  

  

Marketing - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Marketing 
Marketing Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Below Exceeds Points 
Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and 
Demonstrates understanding of role play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides Demonstrates expertise 

ay synopsis 
the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synopsis AND of role pl

AND definition of the  
problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) defines the problem(s) problem(s) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Alternative(s) given 
No alternatives but pro(s) and/or At least two alternatives Multiple alternatives 

Identifies alternatives and the identified con(s) are not given, pro(s) and con(s) given and multiple pros 
pro(s) and con(s) of each analyzed are analyzed and cons analyzed for  

each 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Feasible solution and 
No solution Solution provided, Logical solution and implementation plan 

Identifies logical solution and identified but implementation implementation plan developed, and 
aspects of implementation plan not developed provided and developed necessary resources  

identified 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
 

Demonstrates knowledge and 
understanding of the event 

knowledge areas: 
 No knowledge areas One or two 

Marketing Fundamentals / demonstrated knowledge areas Three knowledge areas Four or more knowledge 
Market Planning / Marketing- are demonstrated are demonstrated areas are demonstrated 

Information Management / 
Product/Service Management / 

Channel Management / Pricing / 
Promotion / Selling 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed in a 
Statements are well-organized not appear prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in logical sequence; 

and clearly stated prepared was not logical logical sequence statements were well  
organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of 
the listed skills Demonstrated 3 of the 

Consistently displays Did not demonstrate listed skills (confidence, Demonstrated all skills, 
confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body body language, eye enhancing the overall 

language, engaging eye contact, skills language, eye 
contact, or voice contact, or voice presentation  

and effective voice projection. projection) projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Interacted with the  
Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process of 

Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions completely answering 
effectively answer questions questions 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

 
Presentation Total (100 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Marketing - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.