2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Networking Infrastructures 

 
Networking Infrastructures challenges members to demonstrate their knowledge of network 
administration and infrastructure through an objective test. This event covers topics such as 
network design, protocols, hardware, and security, highlighting the importance of reliable 
connectivity in today’s digital workplace. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School  
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical 

Thinking, Technology 
 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Networking Basics  Test Composition
• Network Topologies and 

Architecture  30
• Network Security  25

• Network Protocols and 20

Standards  15

• Network Hardware and 10
5

Connectivity  
0

 
Test questions are based on the 
knowledge areas and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the study 
guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Networking Infrastructures - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Networking Infrastructures 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Competitor Responsibility: Only registered competitors are permitted to plan, 

research, prepare, and set up their presentations. Advisers and others may not assist. 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 

Networking Infrastructures - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Networking Infrastructures 

 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

Networking Infrastructures - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Networking Infrastructures 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Networking Infrastructures - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Networking Infrastructures 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Networking Basics (20 test items) 

1. Discuss characteristics and types of LANs (e.g., SOHO, enterprise, datacenter)  
2. Discuss the functions of the physical and data link layers of the OSI model  
3. Discuss the functions of the network and transport layers of the OSI model  
4. Discuss the functions of the session, presentation, and application layers of the OSI 

model  
5. Explain how data travels across networks (e.g., packets, routers, switches)  
6. Describe how devices receive an internet connection (e.g., ISP, equipment, cabling)  
7. Describe the purpose of IP addresses, MAC addresses, and subnetting  
8. Discuss differences between IPv4 and IPv6  
9. Identify IPv4 address classes  

 
Network Topologies and Architecture (20 test items) 

1. Give examples of peer-to-peer and client-server networks  
2. Discuss the characteristics of different types of networks (e.g., LAN, MAN, WAN)  
3. Recommend network topologies according to business requirements (e.g., bus, mesh, 

star)  
4. Explain characteristics of network topologies (e.g., star, bus, ring, mesh)  
5. Discuss wireless connectivity options for small and large-scale networks  
6. Explain use cases for Infrastructure, Platform, and Software as a Service (IaaS, PaaS, 

and SaaS)  
7. Discuss benefits, costs, and risks associated with cloud architectures  
8. Explain factors that affect range, speed, and reliability of wireless connections  
9. Describe characteristics of 5G networks  

 
Network Security (25 test items) 

1. Explain the differences between risks, vulnerabilities, exploits, and threats  
2. Identify internal and external sources of risk and vulnerabilities (e.g., zero day, 

employees, outdated software)  
3. Describe basic forms of network security (e.g., user management, permissions, 

encryption, authentication)  
4. Discuss malware protection measures (e.g., antivirus, filtering, patch management)  
5. Describe characteristics of DoS attacks and forms they can take (e.g., botnets, 

overload, DDoS)  
6. Describe common network attacks (e.g., phishing, spoofing, poisoning)  
7. Describe confidentiality, integrity, and availability  
8. Describe vulnerability mitigations (e.g., closing ports, updating software, antivirus) 
9. Explain the importance of hashing, digital signatures, and certificates in network 

security  
10. Describe characteristics of authentication methods (e.g., MFA, SSO, remote 

authentication)  
 
Network Protocols and Standards (20 test items) 

1. Explain common transfer protocols (e.g., FTP, SFTP, SMTP)  
2. Explain the relationship between DNS, DHCP, and IP addresses  
3. Describe 802.11 wireless standards (e.g., range, speed, frequency)  

Networking Infrastructures - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Networking Infrastructures 

 
4. Describe characteristics of 802.3 wired standards (e.g., range, speed, frequency)  
5. Characterize TCP and UDP  
6. Describe dynamic routing protocols (e.g., BGP, EIGRP, OSPF)  
7. Identify well-known ports reserved for specific protocols (e.g., port 22 reserved for 

SFTP and SSH)  
8. Describe the use of network address translation (NAT) by networked devices  
9. Describe wireless encryption standards (e.g., WPA2, WPA3)  

 
Network Hardware and Connectivity (15 test items) 

1. Discuss the functions of common network devices (e.g., modems, routers, switches)  
2. Discuss the function and characteristics of network adapters (e.g., NIC, virtual 

adapters, PCIe adapters)  
3. Describe Ethernet cable types (e.g., STP, UTP, coaxial)  
4. Describe fiber optic cable types and connectors  
5. Analyze the benefits of rack and blade server infrastructures  
6. Describe the equipment needed to connect to the internet  
7. Discuss the use of NAS and RAID hard drive configurations  

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

Association for Computing Machinery. Information Technology Curricula 2017. 
https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/curricula-
recommendations/it2017.pdf  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 1 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 2 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

CompTIA. CompTIA Network+ Certification Exam Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-network-n10-009-
exam-objectives-(4-0)  

IBM. What is network infrastructure? https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/network-infrastructure  

Microsoft. Fundamentals of computer networking. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/training/modules/network-fundamentals/  

 

Networking Infrastructures - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.