2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

 
Network Design challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of networking 
concepts and infrastructure through an objective test and a role play scenario. Members apply 
their knowledge to design, implement, and troubleshoot network solutions that meet the needs 
of a business or organization. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Network Installation and Configuration  Test Composition
• Network Security and Recovery  
• Network Administration  30

25
• Network Planning  20
• Network Protocols, Services, and Access  15

10
 5

0
Test questions and role plays are based on the 
knowledge statements and objectives outlined for 
this event. Detailed objectives can be found in 
the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Network Design - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test check-

Code in) 
 

Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 
• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play  
problem/scenario 

• Flip chart 
paper/markers 

• Easel for placement 
of flipchart during 
presentation 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
Network Design - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

 
 

Network Design - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a network design–related 

scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy 
must be shared among team members and may only be accessed within the 
designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 
 
 

Network Design - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 
• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 

accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Network Design - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Network Installation and Configuration (25 test items) 

1. Discuss the functions of routers and modems in home and office networks 
2. Describe the features of a SOHO router 
3. Discuss configuration of software and hardware firewalls (e.g., rules, ACLs) 
4. Describe the range, speed, and requirements for fiber optic cable 
5. Describe the characteristics of copper cable 
6. Explain IEEE 802 wireless standards 
7. Describe the purpose of subnetting, subnet masks, and loopback addresses 
8. Describe wireless network configuration (e.g., modem, router, network password) 
9. Discuss server installation and configuration in rack and blade infrastructures 
10. Discuss the impact of power and temperature on physical network infrastructures 

(e.g., cooling, uninterruptible power supply) 
11. Describe configuration options for printing over a network (e.g., printer share, printer 

connectivity, print servers) 
12. Describe the functions of access points and gateways 

 
Network Security and Recovery (20 test items) 

1. Describe the purpose of disaster recovery plans 
2. Select plans for disaster recovery and prevention 
3. Describe network backup solutions (e.g., cloud storage, NAS, external hard drives) 
4. Describe defensive measures against DoS, phishing, and internal threats (e.g., least 

privilege, third-party service, security policy) 
5. Describe methods for mitigating network vulnerabilities (e.g., closing ports, updating 

OS, maintaining antivirus) 
6. Discuss best practices for network security (e.g., least privilege, authentication, 

encryption) 
7. Describe the benefits of Zero Trust principles 
8. Explain methods of network access control 
9. Describe security features of Windows and Linux-based operating systems (e.g., 

BitLocker, domains, SELinux) 
10. Describe the use of Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS) 
11. Discuss wireless security standards (e.g., WPA, access control lists) 

 
Network Administration (20 test items) 

1. Discuss the need for network maintenance (e.g., audits, updates, backups, restores) 
2. Describe user account and permission management 
3. Explain the purpose and use of Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) 
4. Discuss common network issues (e.g. slow performance, connection issues, IP 

conflicts) 
5. Use common network command-line tools (e.g., ping, tracert, ipconfig) 
6. Discuss the importance of updates and patch management 
7. Discuss the role of documentation in network maintenance and troubleshooting 
8. Describe tools for monitoring network traffic and performance 
9. Describe the use and benefits of load balancing 
10. Describe procedures for managing network assets (e.g., users, groups, and printers) 

 
 
 
 

Network Design - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 

 
Network Planning (15 test items) 

1. Match business requirements to appropriate network design decisions (e.g., topology, 
physical size, users) 

2. Discuss hardware and performance differences between network types (e.g., LAN, 
WAN) 

3. Describe the physical layouts of network topologies (e.g., star, mesh, bus) 
4. Discuss the use cases of network topologies (e.g., star, mesh, bus) 
5. Select an appropriate network operating system (Windows Server, Linux-based, etc.) 
6. Describe the benefits and risks of a peer-to-peer network 
7. Discuss the benefits of cloud services for network infrastructure 
8. Describe how business needs can restrict and drive network design decisions (e.g., 

cost, throughput, availability) 
9. Explain how network topology decisions impact performance, cost, and availability 

 
Network Protocols, Services, and Access (20 test items) 

1. Describe different types of networks (e.g., LAN, WAN) 
2. Describe basic network security practices (e.g., encryption, VPN, packet sniffing, 

authentication) 
3. Describe common network attacks (e.g., phishing, spoofing, poisoning) 
4. Describe different connectivity technologies (e.g., Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth) 
5. Discuss the functions of common network devices (e.g., modems, routers, switches) 
6. Discuss types of network environments (e.g., peer-to-peer, client-server, thin client) 
7. Explain relationships between major network components (e.g., servers, clients, 

switches) 
8. Describe each layer of the Open System Interconnection (OSI) model 
9. Explain basic networking protocols (e.g., TCP/IP, UDP, DHCP, SMP) 
10. Discuss the characteristics of network topologies (e.g., star, bus, ring) 
11. Describe tools and procedures for troubleshooting networks (e.g., ping, tracert, 

checking cable connections) 
 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 
 
Cisco. Designing Cisco Enterprise Networks (ENSLD) v1.1. 

https://learningcontent.cisco.com/documents/marketing/exam-topics/300-420-ENSLD-
v1.1.pdf  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 1 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

CompTIA. CompTIA Network+ Certification Exam Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-network-n10-009-
exam-objectives-(4-0)  

Cisco. What is network design? https://www.cisco.com/site/us/en/learn/topics/networking/what-is-
network-design.html   

IBM. What is network infrastructure? https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/network-infrastructure 

Microsoft. Fundamentals of computer networking. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/training/modules/network-fundamentals/  

Network Design - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Network Design 
Network Design Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Below Points 
Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds 

Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and Demonstrates 

Demonstrates understanding of role play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides expertise of role play 
synopsis AND 

the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synopsis AND 
definition of the  

problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) defines the problem(s) 
problem(s) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Alternative(s) given 
No alternatives but pro(s) and/or At least two alternatives Multiple alternatives 

Identifies alternatives and the identified con(s) are not given, and pro(s) and given and multiple 

pro(s) and con(s) of each analyzed con(s) are analyzed pros and cons  
analyzed for each 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Feasible solution and 

No solution Solution provided, Logical solution and implementation plan 
Identifies logical solution and identified but implementation implementation plan developed, and 

aspects of implementation plan not developed provided and developed necessary resources  
identified 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Demonstrates knowledge and  

understanding of the event 
knowledge areas:  

 
Network Installation and No knowledge areas One or two  knowledge areas Four or more 

Configuration / Network Security demonstrated knowledge areas Three re 
are demonstrated are demonstrated knowledge areas a

demonstrated 
and Recovery / Network 

Administration / Network 
Planning / Network Protocols, 

Services, and Access 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Delivery Skills 

Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed 
Statements are well-organized not appear prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in in a logical sequence; 

and clearly stated prepared was not logical logical sequence statements were well  
organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of 
the listed skills Demonstrated 3 of the 

Consistently displays Did not demonstrate listed skills (confidence, Demonstrated all 
confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body body language, eye skills, enhancing the 

language, engaging eye contact, skills language, eye 
contact, or voice contact, or voice overall presentation  

and effective voice projection. projection) projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Interacted with the  
Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 

Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions of completely 
effectively answer questions answering questions 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

 
Presentation Total (100 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Network Design - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.