2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Parliamentary Procedure (High School) 

 
Parliamentary Procedure allows members to demonstrate their understanding of the principles 
and practices used to conduct orderly and efficient meetings. This event includes an objective 
test and a role play scenario, where members apply parliamentary law through simulated 
meeting activities. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 4 or 5 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Public Service & Safety 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Teamwork 

 
 Knowledge Areas 

 
• Parliamentary Procedure Principles  Test Composition
• FBLA Bylaws (Division and Corporate) 100

 80
The objective test and role play criteria for this 60

40
event will be based on Robert’s Rules of Order, 20
Newly Revised, 12th edition. 0

 Parliamentary FBLA Bylaws
Procedure

 Principles
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Parliamentary Procedure (High School) - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Parliamentary Procedure (High School) 

National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
 
 

Role Play • Reference materials • Pencils for prep and 
• Conference-provided nametag presentation room  
• Photo identification • Two notecards per 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress competitor  

Code • Secret role play  
• Gavel and sounding block problem/scenario 

• Paper for secretary’s 
notes 

• Table Tents for 
Presentation room 
(President, Secretary, 
Treasurer) 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 

Parliamentary Procedure (High School) - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Parliamentary Procedure (High School) 

o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 
Business Report). 

• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 
complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and a role play of a chapter meeting. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
  

Parliamentary Procedure (High School) - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Parliamentary Procedure (High School) 

Role Play Details: The Meeting 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 10 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a parliamentary procedure–

related scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. 
This copy must be shared among team members. 

• The role play scenario will simulate a regular chapter meeting and will be 
distributed to competitors at the start of their assigned preparation time. 

• Competitors may use parliamentary procedure reference materials during the 
preparation period only. No scripts may be brought into or created in the 
preparation room. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• The following items may be brought into both the prep and presentation rooms: 

o One gavel/sounding block 
o A printed copy of the role play 
o A treasurer’s report (created prior to competition) 
o Minutes from a previous meeting (created prior to competition) 
o Note: The secretary may take notes during the meeting but will not 

transcribe them into formal minutes. 
• No additional technology, reference materials, visuals, or props beyond the two 

notecards may be used during the presentation. 
Presentation Expectations 

• The presentation must simulate a complete regular chapter meeting, beginning 
with a Call to Order and ending with Adjournment. 

• Required business items from the role play must be addressed in the proper order 
of business. Additional meeting business should also be conducted. 

• The presentation must demonstrate the use of all five classes of motions if listed in 
the role play: Main, Subsidiary, Privileged, Incidental, Motions that bring a question 
again before the assembly 

Audience 
• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 

Confidentiality 
• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 

until the event concludes. 
 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 

Parliamentary Procedure (High School) - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Parliamentary Procedure (High School) 

• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
• The Parliamentary Procedure award is named after Dorothy L. Travis. Dorothy was one 

of the founders of North Dakota FBLA and was appointed as the first State 
Chairperson in 1967. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

 
 

 
  

Parliamentary Procedure (High School) - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Parliamentary Procedure (High School) 
Parliamentary Procedure Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Completed Completed Completed & Correct Points 
Earned 

Motions Classification as Listed in Role Play 
 

Main Motion 0 points 1-6 points 7-10 points  
 
 

Subsidiary Motion 0 points 1-6 points 7-10 points  
 
 

Privileged Motion 0 points 1-6 points 7-10 points  
 
 

Incidental Motion 0 points 1-6 points 7-10 points  
 

 
Bring Again Motion 0 points 1-6 points 7-10 points  

 
Business of Meeting 

Call to Order 0 points 1-3 points 4-5 points  

 
Problem Addressed 0 points 1-16 points 17-25 points  

 
 

Proper Use of 
Parliamentary Terms 0 points 1-6 points 7-10 points  

 
 

Voices Projected and 
Expressions Clear 0 points 1-3 points 4-5 points  

 
 

Presiding Official 
Remained Impartial 0 points 1-3 points 4-5 points  

 
 

Members took 
initiative in meeting 0 points 1-3 points 4-5 points  

 
 

Meeting Adjournment 0 points 1-3 points 4-5 points 

Presentation Protocols 
Execution Aligned with Guidelines:  

 Presentation aligned with the assigned topic 
Adherence to Competitor(s) Did Not Follow 

Competitive Events Guidelines  Did not leave materials behind after the presentation 
 Only items listed in the guidelines were brought to prep & 

Guidelines presentation room 
0 points 10 points 

Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  
 

Presentation Total (120 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Parliamentary Procedure (High School) - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.