2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Real Estate 

 
Real Estate challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of the real estate industry 
through an objective test. Members are assessed on key concepts such as property law, real 
estate finance, market analysis, sales strategies, and ethical practices. This event encourages 
exploration of the skills and knowledge needed to navigate the real estate sector successfully. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School  
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Financial Services 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking 
 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Real Estate Fundamentals  Test Composition
• Laws and Regulations  
• Real Estate Transactions and Finance  35

30
• Ethics  25

20
• Agency  15

10
 5

0
Test questions are based on the knowledge 
areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the 
study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Real Estate - Page 1 of 5 – Updated November 13, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Real Estate 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Real Estate - Page 2 of 5 – Updated November 13, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Real Estate 

 
 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

  

Real Estate - Page 3 of 5 – Updated November 13, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Real Estate 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Real Estate Fundamentals (30 test items) 

1. Distinguish between real and personal property  
2. Distinguish among real estate agents, brokers, and realtors 
3. Discuss the benefits of membership in a real estate organization such as the National 

Association of Realtors (NAR) 
4. Describe careers in real estate (e.g., property managers, leasing agents, mortgage 

bankers) 
5. Describe residential and commercial real estate niches (e.g., office space, single family 

home, industrial, land) 
6. Define basic real estate terminology (e.g., appurtenances, liens, hereditaments) 
7. Describe the nature of land use  
8. Describe the real estate licensing process 
9. Explain the real estate valuation process (FI:517) (SP) 
10. Describe the role and responsibilities of real estate appraisers (PD:246) (SP) 
11. Explain the role and responsibilities of real estate entrepreneurs (PD:248) (SP) 

 
Laws and Regulations (25 test items) 

1. Identify discriminatory housing practices  
2. Discuss Fair Housing laws and protected classes 
3. Discuss property disclosures required by law (e.g., asbestos, lead) 
4. Identify federal regulations that protect prospective home buyers 
5. Discuss the importance of state, county, and local real estate regulations 
6. Discuss the nature of land use controls and zoning regulations 
7. Discuss the nature of leasing and tenancy 
8. Discuss the role of regulatory organizations in the real estate industry  
9. Discuss fiduciary responsibilities in real estate  

 
Real Estate Transactions and Finance (20 test items) 

1. Describe the real estate transaction process 
2. Explain approaches to real estate lending (OP:281) (SP) 
3. Discuss deeds and transfer of title 

Real Estate - Page 4 of 5 – Updated November 13, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Real Estate 

 
4. Discuss the involvement of financial institutions in the real estate industry (OP:186) (SP) 
5. Discuss the nature of the secondary mortgage market (OP:363) (SP) 
6. Explain the nature of real estate investments (PD:317) (SP) 
7. Explain the nature of a real estate closing/settlement (SE:469) (SP) 

 
Ethics (5 test items) 

1. Discuss truth in advertising 
2. Discuss ethical considerations in real estate 

 
Agency (20 test items) 

1. Describe types of agents (e.g., seller’s, buyer’s, dual, sub) 
2. Explain the nature of agency relationships (BL:072) (SP) 
3. Explain the role and responsibilities of real estate sales agents (PD:245) (SP) 
4. Discuss the role of agents in real estate transactions 
5. Differentiate between agency in commercial vs. residential transactions 
6. Explain ways to advertise real estate listings for sale (SE:467) (SP) 

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

Capital Real Estate School. Land use controls & regulations. https://capitalrealestateschool.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/02/TOPIC-8-Land-Use-Controls-Regs_CRES-9-SEP-2020.pdf 

Hondros College. Preparing for the Ohio Real Estate Exam. https://www.hondros.com/programs/real-
estate-salesperson/ohio/prepare-for-real-estate-exam-in-ohio/  

Investopedia. Real estate: Definition, types, how to invest in it. 
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/realestate.asp  

Kaplan Real Estate Education. Real estate license requirements (By state). 
https://www.kapre.com/resources/real-estate/requirements-real-estate-
license?srsltid=AfmBOorDW4HeLog5DoFuplH6jc3gICrv4efSXAbtHLONP93sPVirKVu5 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

Realty Publications, Inc. Real estate principles. 
https://journal.firsttuesday.us/Realtipedia/Book_PRIN.pdf  

Rocket Mortgage. What is real estate? A definition and a guide. 
https://www.rocketmortgage.com/learn/what-is-real-estate  

 
 

 

Real Estate - Page 5 of 5 – Updated November 13, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.