2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

 
Sports & Entertainment Management challenges members to demonstrate their understanding 
of the business aspects of the sports and entertainment industries. Through an objective test 
and a role play scenario, members apply knowledge in areas such as marketing, event planning, 
sponsorship, and financial management within this dynamic field. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Hospitality, Events, & Tourism 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Sports and Entertainment Marketing/Strategic Marketing  
• Facility and Event 

Management  Test Composition
• Human Resource 

Management (Labor 12

Relations)  10

• 8
Promotion, Advertising, and 6
Sponsorship for Sports and 4
Entertainment Industry  2

• Financing and Economic 0
Input  

• Planning, Distribution, 
Marketing, Pricing, and 
Selling Sports and 
Entertainment Events  

• Sports Law  
• Communication in Sports and Entertainment (Media)  
• Ethics  
• Licensing  
• Sports Governance  
• Careers  
• Marketing/Management Information Technology and Research  
• Leadership and Managing Groups and Teams in the Sports and Entertainment Industry  
• Management Strategies and Strategic Planning Tools  
• Basic Functions of Management  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 1 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

 
Test questions and role plays are based on the knowledge statements and objectives outlined 
for this event. Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 2 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 3 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a sports and entertainment 

management–related scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned 
preparation time. This copy must be shared among team members and may only be 
accessed within the designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 4 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 5 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Sports and Entertainment Marketing/Strategic Marketing  

1. Recognize the importance of marketing to the sports and entertainment 
industry.  

2. Explain the seven marketing functions and their importance in sports and 
entertainment.  

3. Describe the steps in developing a market research project.  
4. Identify the challenges, obstacles, and limitations associated with sports and 

entertainment marketing.  
5. Discuss the significance of the four P’s to the target market.  
6. Compare and contrast the differences of the marketing mix components in 

sports and entertainment.  
7. Analyze the various pricing strategies and factors that affect pricing sports and 

entertainment products.  
8. Calculate the markup of sports and entertainment products.  
9. Examine ticket sales policies/strategies in sports and entertainment.  
10. Identify types of market segmentation.  
11. Discuss the issues related to branding strategies of products in sports and 

entertainment.  
12. Examine product lines for sports and entertainment organizations (including 

manufacturing costs).  
13. Describe why sports/entertainment organizations implement promotions.  
14. Determine the role of advertising technology in sports and entertainment.  
15. Evaluate the advertising forms (print, broadcast, specialty, social media, etc.) 

suitable in the sports and entertainment industry.  
16. Assess demographic and geographic considerations related to sports and 

entertainment.  
17. Explain the central focus of the marketing concept.  
18. Explain the reasons for increased entertainment options.  
19. Explain the importance of understanding buyer behavior when making 

marketing decisions.  
20. List and describe means of collecting marketing information for use in decision 

making.  
21. Define market segmentation.  
22. Explain the importance of outstanding customer service.  
23. Explain what it means to establish a service culture.  
24. Explain the role of travel and tourism in sports and entertainment.  
25. Explain how marketers determine direction and focus for a marketing plan.  
26. List and describe the components of a marketing plan.  
27. Define the product mix, product extension, and product enhancement.  
28. List and describe the components of the product mix.  
29. Explain the high cost for sports and entertainment events.  
30. Define customizing.  
31. Describe the financial impact of Baby Boomers on the sports and 

entertainment industry.  
32. List and describe the stages of the product life cycle.  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 6 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

33. Explain how products are positioned in the marketplace.  
B. Facility and Event Management  

1. Determine the requirements in choosing a location and/or building and 
operating a facility.  

2. Examine operating procedures for a facility.  
3. Evaluate financing opportunities for a sports and entertainment facility.   
4. Evaluate support activities in operating a sports and entertainment facility 

(concessions, security).  
5. Employ the principles of safety to sports and entertainment.  
6. Discuss prevention procedures and preparation techniques including risk 

management.  
7. Describe the event triangle as it relates to event marketing/management.    
8. Examine event possibilities in various sports and entertainment industries.  
9. Describe potential marketing and sales techniques used before, during, and 

after events.  
10. Describe the role of sponsorship and evaluate potential techniques for 

effective utilization.  
11. Discuss criteria for selecting venues.  
12. Explain the process for planning an event.  
13. Develop a budget for an event.  
14. Develop follow-up activities to recognize/thank participants after the event.  
15. Implement and evaluate a sports and entertainment event to promote 

retention and service for future events.  
16. Explain factors affecting attendance at an event.  
17. Examine concessions sales policies/strategies in sports and entertainment.  
18. Explain the importance of budgets as related to sports and entertainment 

management.  
19. Describe the management necessary for major events.  
20. Define the four types of economic utility as they relate to sports and 

entertainment events.  
21. Describe the factors of production in a market economy.  
22. Explain how universities increase revenues through entertainment events.  
23. Explain the different types of organizational structures.  
24. Describe the value of special events and their importance during shoulder 

periods.  
25. Describe the latest technology trends impacting entertainment.  
26. Explain the developmental phase for sports and entertainment planning.  
27. Explain how objectives set guidelines for entertainment events.  
28. Define mission for the sports and entertainment industry.  
29. Define risk and describe the categories and classifications of risk.  
30. Describe the four strategies for risk management.  
31. Define industry and give examples of subdivisions of the sports and 

entertainment industry.  
32. Explain why marketing decisions are based on industry standards, norms, and 

trends.  
C. Human Resource Management (Labor Relations)  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 7 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

1. Identify the functions and responsibilities of human resources.  
2. Analyze personnel needs for an event.  
3. Describe the importance of job descriptions and separation of responsibilities 

in a large organization.  
4. Describe the recruiting and retention processes.  
5. Identify general managers for professional teams and their duties.  
6. Describe the roles of scouts, agents, and managers and their benefits.  
7. Establish criteria, policies, and procedures to be used to determine 

compensation, benefits, and promotion.  
8. Explain the need for human resources.  
9. Define the four functions of human resource departments:  planning and 

staffing, presentation management, compensation and benefits, and employer 
relations.  

10. Explain the need for continuous professional development.  
11. Describe the rules of conduct for a workforce.  
12. Define SWOT analysis, benchmarking, and scenario building.  
13. Describe fringe benefits offered to sports and entertainment employees.  
14. Explain the importance of job orientation.  
15. Explain the importance of evaluating employee presentation.  
16. Describe diversity in the workplace.  
17. Describe strategies to recruit sports and entertainment employees.  
18. Define human resources management identify human resource management 

activities.  
19. Describe the procedure to recruit and hire the best personnel.  
20. Explain why coordinating and giving feedback are important responsibilities of 

human resource management.  
D. Promotion, Advertising, and Sponsorship for Sports and Entertainment Industry  

1. Distinguish between collegiate athletics, amateur sports, professional sports, 
and sports camps.  

2. Compare and contrast sponsorships and endorsements.  
3. Evaluate the sports and entertainment industry as a valuable segment of the 

economy.  
4. Analyze the components of the sports and entertainment industry.  
5. Analyze growth and trends of sports and entertainment as an industry in local, 

state, national, and international areas.  
6. Identify new trends and areas of growth in amateur sports.  
7. Describe the goals of promotion.  
8. List and define the elements of promotion.  
9. List and describe the steps involved in developing effective advertising.  
10. Describe the use of product placement.  
11. Define publicity and explain its role in creating a positive public image.  
12. Describe different types of sales promotions.  
13. List the steps in developing the promotional plan.  
14. Explain the benefits of sponsorship to the sponsor.  
15. Explain the promotional value of involvement in seasonal themed events.  
16. Explain the promotional value of entertainment awards.  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 8 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

E. Financing and Economic Input  
1. Describe the economic impact of sports and entertainment events in various 

areas:  locally, regionally, nationally, and internationally.  
2. Explain supply and demand and the relationship of the economic system to the 

sports and entertainment industry.  
3. Describe economic indicators and growth of sports and entertainment 

industry.  
4. Explain the advantages and disadvantages of operating as a for-profit or not-

for profit organization.  
5. Identify revenue sources as related to sports and entertainment industries and 

for specific events.  
6. Examine economic impact studies, previous results, and relate these to 

financing decisions.  
7. Identify expenditures for the sports and entertainment industries.  
8. Describe the importance of business and financial plans.  
9. Analyze basic financial documents:  budgets, income statements, balance 

sheets, and breakeven point analysis.  
10. Identify types of budgeting techniques used in local, collegiate, and 

professional sports.   
11. Define risk and describe the categories and classifications of risk.  
12. Describe the four strategies for risk management.  
13. Define industry and give examples of subdivisions of the sports and 

entertainment industry.  
14. Explain why marketing decisions are based on industry standards, norms, and 

trends.  
15. Explain the role of travel and tourism in sports and entertainment.  

F. Planning, Distribution, Marketing, Pricing, and Selling Sports and Entertainment Events  
1. Identify and explain the steps in the planning process and the strategic 

planning tools used by managers.  
2. Identify advantages and risks of strategic management.  
3. Explain the steps in a successful change process.  
4. Explain the different types of organizational structures with the sports and 

entertainment industries.  
5. Identify current trends in the workforce concerning organizational structures.  
6. Explain the distribution of sports and entertainment.  
7. List and describe distribution channels for sports and entertainment.  
8. Explain the relationships among supply, demand, and price.  
9. Discuss the government’s influence on pricing.  
10. Discuss pricing strategies used by businesses to increase sales.  
11. Define the business cycle and describe its impact on entertainment.  
12. Discuss the importance of monitoring customer trends.  
13. List the steps of the sales process.  
14. Explain the difference between ticket brokers and ticket scalpers.  
15. Explain sales strategies for attracting groups to sports and entertainment 

venues.  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 9 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

16. Describe how corporations use sports and entertainment to motivate 
employees and impress clients.  

17. Discuss how laws impact entertainment marketing.  
18. Explain copyright law.  
19. Describe contract law for the sports and entertainment industry.  
20. List and describe distribution channels for sports and entertainment.  
21. Explain the relationships among supply, demand, and price.  
22. Discuss the government’s influence on pricing.  
23. Discuss pricing strategies used by businesses to increase sales.  
24. List the steps for determining price.  
25. Define the business cycle and describe its impact on entertainment.  
26. Discuss the importance of monitoring customer trends.  

G. Sports Law  
1. List legal issues affecting the marketing and management of the sports and 

entertainment industry.  
2. Describe the impact of national, state, and local laws and regulations on sports 

and entertainment.  
3. Describe the impact of the Americans with Disabilities Act on sports and 

entertainment events and facilities.  
4. Discuss the impact of Title IX on management of college athletics.  
5. Examine environmental issues/laws as they relate to sports and entertainment 

industries.  
6. Describe how monopoly laws affect professional sports.  
7. Discuss the impact of labor laws on sports.  
8. Analyze the impact of labor unions on sports and entertainment, including 

pricing and strikes.  
9. Explain the purpose and benefits of copyright protection.  
10. Identify purpose, types, and terms and need for contracts.  
11. Explain the agent’s and general manager’s roles in an athlete’s contractual 

agreement.  
H. Communication in Sports and Entertainment (Media)  

1. Identify the roles of public relations and publicity in sports and entertainment.  
2. Compare and contrast media sources for public relations and advertising.  
3. Compare/evaluate advance publicity in sports and entertainment.  
4. Utilize effective communication skills including proper grammar and writing 

skills.  
5. Discuss the importance of positive and negative public relations for sports; 

how firms assist in creating favorable images and how athletics can affect 
public perceptions.  

6. List and explain potential benefits of celebrity endorsement.  
7. Describe public relations efforts related to fans, publishing, and speaking 

engagements.  
I. Ethics  

1. Describe ethical issues in sports (e.g., impact of presentation-enhancing drugs 
and gambling).  

2. Evaluate social responsibility in sports and entertainment industry.  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 10 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

3. Evaluate and apply principles of ethics as they relate to sports and 
entertainment.  

4. Define ethics.  
5. Discuss the impact of unethical behavior.  

J. Licensing  
1. Explain royalties and licensed products.  
2. Evaluate the forms of product licensing and the product licensing process.  
3. Describe the financial value of licensing sports and entertainment 

merchandise.  
K. Sports Governance  

1. Determine the various types of sponsorship in sports and entertainment.  
2. Evaluate the impact of sponsorship in sports and entertainment.  
3. Identify and define standards of controlling professional sports.  
4. Describe the managerial role of the NCAA and other collegiate governing bodies 

in college athletics.  
5. Describe the NCAA’s, NAIA’s and NJCAA’s roles as the governing bodies in 

collegiate athletics.  
L. Careers  

1. Identify career opportunities available in the sports and entertainment 
industry.  

2. Identify specific skills needed by today’s sports and entertainment workforce.  
3. Describe education and training needed for a job/career in sports 

management.  
4. Identify barriers to employment and strategies to overcome them.  
5. Develop a career portfolio including a résumé, cover letter, job application, and 

other work-related items.  
6. Define a career development program in the sports and entertainment 

industry.  
7. Describe various career levels in sports and entertainment management.  
8. Explain the importance of a career portfolio.  

M. Marketing/Management Information Technology and Research  
1. Discuss how technology and statistical programs can be used in operations 

management, specifically with inputs, outputs, and assembly lines.  
2. Explain the evolution of the management information system.  
3. Describe key components of the management information system.  
4. Discuss the implementation of strategies and decision making using a 

management information system.  
5. List and describe the steps involved in marketing research.  
6. Discuss the human factors in marketing research.  
7. Explain the options for electronic data collection.  
8. Discuss the concept of data-driven decisions.  
9. Explain the difference between marketing tactics and strategies.  
10. Explain the importance of planning to keep ahead of the competition.  
11. Explain the importance learning from customers.  
12. Explain how marketers determine direction and focus for a marketing plan.  
13. List and describe the components of a marketing plan.  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 11 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

14. Explain the importance of Management Information Systems (MIS).  
15. Explain the rationale for organizations to follow best practices.  

N. Leadership and Managing Groups and Teams in the Sports and Entertainment Industry  
1. Identify leadership styles and personal characteristics needed in leadership 

situations.  
2. Identify and describe four leadership styles:  autocratic, democratic, open, and 

situational.  
3. Discuss the importance of human relations skills and communication for an 

effective leader/manager.  
4. Discuss effective motivation techniques and effective work teams.  
5. Define delegation of duties.  
6. Explain the importance of professional networking.  
7. Describe the skills needed by employees in the sports and entertainment 

industry.  
8. Explain the latest trends in the sports and entertainment industry.  
9. Explain the basic structures of groups.  
10. Describe factors that influence group behavior.  
11. Describe the different types of teams used by an organization.  
12. Explain how a manager can build a successful team.  
13. Explain how organizations can be designed to support teams.  
14. Describe a virtual team and its functions.  
15. Explain how feedback from management influences employee presentation.  
16. Explain how leaders must be agents of change.  
17. Describe characteristics of successful teams.  
18. Explain why teams fail.  
19. Define leadership and list leadership characteristics.  
20. Identify ways that managers influence employees.  
21. Describe important human relations skills.  
22. Explain what motivates individuals to accomplish organizational goals.  
23. Discuss leadership styles.  
24. Describe strategies that leaders use to motivate employees.  
25. Explain why people resist change.  
26. Describe the steps for an effective change process.  
27. List the characteristics of enlightened leaders.  
28. Discuss the types of decisions made by managers.  
29. Describe the conditions faced by a manager when making a decision.  
30. Explain the advantages and disadvantages of group decision making.  
31. Describe the concept of knowledge management.  
32. Explain how knowledge communities can benefit sports and entertainment 

managers.  
33. Describe strategies used by groups to make decisions.  
34. Explain different management approaches.  

O. Management Strategies and Strategic Planning Tools  
1. Describe corporate, business, and functional strategies.  
2. Discuss the advantages and risks associated with strategic management.  
3. Identify the steps in strategic management.  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 12 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 

4. Explain the development phase of the strategic management process.  
5. Describe the action and review phases of the strategic management process.  
6. Describe internal and external environmental factors that impact economics 

for the sports and entertainment industry.  
7. Explain how functional strategies are related to strategic planning.  
8. Describe the major strategic planning tools available to managers.  
9. Explain how entertainment managers achieve strategic fit.  
10. Describe internal and external environments that impact economics for sports 

and entertainment.  
11. Explain how functional strategies are related to strategic planning.  

P. Basic Functions of Management  
1. Define management and its four functions.  
2. Discuss the principles of business management.  
3. List the steps in the decision-making process.  
4. Explain the role of human resources management in community entertainment 

events.  
5. Describe the economic and competitive challenges faced by state fairs and 

other entertainment events.  
6. Explain the role of economic efficiency for entertainment events.  
7. Discuss the purpose and benefits of planning.  
8. Describe the planning process.  
9. Describe the reasons for and benefits of organizing.  
10. Explain factors that affect the structure of an organization.  
11. Describe how authority is delegated in organizations.  
12. Explain the activities of the implementing function.  
13. Describe the management control process.  
14. List and describe the three steps for efficient control.  
15. Describe the processes of establishing standards, monitoring results, and 

comparing them to standards, and making corrections deviations.  
  

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 13 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Sports & Entertainment Management 
Sports & Entertainment Management Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Demonstrated Below Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Points 
Expectations Earned 

No description or role Describes and Describes and Demonstrates 
Demonstrates play synopsis provides role play provides role play expertise of role play 

understanding of the provided; no problems synopsis OR defines synopsis AND defines synopsis AND 
role play and defines defined the problem(s) the problem(s) definition of the  

problem(s) to be solved problem(s) 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Identifies alternatives No alternatives Alternative(s) given but At least two Multiple alternatives 
alternatives given, and given and multiple 

identified pro(s) and/or con(s) 
and the pro(s) and are not analyzed pro(s) and con(s) are pros and cons  

con(s) of each analyzed analyzed for each 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Solution provided, but Logical solution and Feasible solution and 
Identifies logical No solution identified implementation plan implementation plan implementation plan 

solution and aspects of not developed provided and developed, and 
implementation developed necessary resources  

identified 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Demonstrates  
knowledge and 

understanding of the 
event knowledge areas:  

 
Event management,  

decision making, 
No knowledge areas One or two knowledge Three knowledge Four or more 

strategic planning, 
demonstrated areas are areas are knowledge areas are 

delegation,  demonstrated demonstrated demonstrated 
leadership, ethics,  

entertainment industry,  
marketing and 

promotion, sales,  
entrepreneurship, 
human resources, 

careers 0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

Statements are well- Competitor(s) did not Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed in 
Presentation flowed in a logical sequence; 

appear prepared prepared, but flow 
organized and clearly was not logical logical sequence statements were well  

stated organized 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Consistently displays Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
confidence, poised Did not demonstrate the listed skills listed skills Demonstrated all 

body language, engaging any of the listed skills (confidence, body (confidence, body skills, enhancing the 
eye contact, and language, eye contact, language, eye contact, overall presentation  
effective voice or voice projection) or voice projection) 

projection. 0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Interacted with the  

Demonstrates the ability Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 
to effectively answer questions answer questions questions of completely 

questions answering questions 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  
 

Presentation Total (100 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Sports & Entertainment Management - Page 14 of 14 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.