2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

 
Technology Support & Services challenges members to demonstrate their knowledge of help 
desk operations and IT support through an objective test and a role play scenario. Members 
apply problem-solving, technical, and customer service skills to address real-world technology 
support issues in a business setting. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• IT Fundamentals  
• Service Desk Operations  Test Composition
• Hardware and Software 35

Troubleshooting  30
• IT Management and 25

20
Administration  15

 10
5

Test questions are based on the 0
knowledge areas and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the study 
guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Technology Support & Services - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
 

Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 
• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. Competitors who 
placed in the top ten in Help Desk at a previous National Leadership Conference 
are not eligible to compete in this event. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Competitor Responsibility: Only registered competitors are permitted to plan, 

research, prepare, and set up their presentations. Advisers and others may not assist. 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

Technology Support & Services - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review by the 
Competitive Events Committee prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The objective test score determines the top 15 competitors advancing to role play round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a technology support–related 

scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy 
may only be accessed within the designated preparation area. 

 
 
 

Technology Support & Services - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

 
Notecard Use 

• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 
presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The objective test score determines the top 15 competitors advancing to role play 
round. Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 
10 pre-selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number 
of correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie in the role play round. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 

Technology Support & Services - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Technology Support & Services - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
IT Fundamentals (25 test items) 

1. Describe the responsibilities of each layer of the OSI model 
2. Discuss features of Windows for personal and enterprise environments 
3. Discuss features of MacOS for mobile and PC systems 
4. Apply command-line networking and troubleshooting tools for Windows and Linux 

(e.g., ipconfig, fsck, ping, tracert) 
5. Describe computer components (e.g., CPU, motherboard, GPU) 
6. Interpret software requirements (e.g., 32-bit vs. 64-bit, memory, storage) 
7. Describe best practices for digital security and privacy (e.g., VPN, password managers, 

firewalls) 
8. Describe common security vulnerabilities and threats (e.g., out-of-date systems, SQL 

injection, DDoS) 
9. Explain how information is exchanged between a computer and a network (e.g., 

packets, requests, servers) 
10. Describe the functions of DNS and DHCP 
11. Describe the functions of IP addresses in networked environments 
12. Describe the key hardware components of a network (e.g., clients and servers, 

switches, routers, modems) 
 
Service Desk Operations (20 test items) 

1. Explain the importance of service and help desk teams in an organization 
2. Discuss when tickets should be escalated 
3. Discuss the role of IT Service Management (ITSM) in business 
4. Discuss the functions of service desk software (e.g., JIRA, Zoho) 
5. Describe service desk support tiers and their responsibilities 
6. Discuss methodology for solving tech problems (e.g., identifying problem, testing 

theories, developing plans of action)  
7. Describe the role of ticketing systems in IT support 
8. Describe best practices for identifying and removing malware from systems 

 
Hardware and Software Troubleshooting (30 test items) 

1. Apply the best practice methodology to investigate tech problems 
2. Distinguish between hardware and software problems 
3. Describe solutions to common printer issues (e.g., connectivity, refillables) 
4. Discuss common issues with mobile devices (e.g., battery life, overheating, 

connectivity) 
5. Describe symptoms of problems with RAM, CPU, and storage 
6. Describe tools used to fix and troubleshoot devices (e.g., multimeter, freeze spray, 

compressed air) 
7. Distinguish between devices that need fixing, upgrading, or replacing 
8. Troubleshoot common Windows OS problems (e.g., BSOD, crashing, slow performance) 
9. Describe best practices for removing malware from a system 
10. Describe indicators of malware on a device 
11. Describe common solutions to hardware problems (e.g., restarting, unplugging, 

resting) 
12. Describe common cable and connector types (e.g., USB, lightning, HDMI) 
13. Describe types and parts of a liquid crystal display 
14. Describe the boot process and options for its configuration 

Technology Support & Services - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

 
IT Management and Administration (25 test items) 

1. Describe the role of change management in business and IT management 
2. Describe elements of change request documents (e.g., time of change, 

rollout/backout plan, anticipated impact) 
3. Discuss the use of remote access methods for IT administration (e.g., troubleshooting, 

testing, installing, updating) 
4. Describe remote and virtual access software and protocols (e.g., SSH, RMM, RDP, VPN) 
5. Describe file transfer services and protocols (e.g. FTP, Google Drive, OneDrive) 
6. Discuss printer configuration settings (e.g., tray settings, duplex, orientation) 
7. Describe types of printers (e.g., thermal, 3D, inkjet, laser) 
8. Describe the use of load balancers in cloud environments and physical servers 
9. Discuss key features of Active Directory 
10. Describe the characteristics of different cloud services (e.g., SaaS, PaaS, IaaS) 
11. Discuss spam mitigation and management techniques (e.g., DKIM, SPF, DMARC) 

 
References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

 
CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 1 Objectives. 

https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 2 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1102-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

Coursera. Technical support fundamentals. https://www.coursera.org/learn/technical-support-
fundamentals  

Google. Google IT Support Professional Certificate. https://www.coursera.org/professional-
certificates/google-it-support#outcomes  

IBM. What is ITSM (IT service management)? https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/it-service-
management  

Unity Communications. What is IT support? Our guide to key tools and service desks. https://unity-
connect.com/our-resources/blog/what-is-it-support/  

 
 
 
 

  

Technology Support & Services - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Technology Support & Services  

Technology Support & Services Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 
Expectation Item Not Below eeds Points 

Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Exc
Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and Demonstrates 
expertise of role play 

Demonstrates understanding of role play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides 
 AND synopsis AND 

the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synopsis
defines the problem(s) definition of the  

problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) problem(s) 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Communicates in a 
No position Communicates Communicates position professional manner 

Communicates position on role communicated position not related 
play scenario to problem on problem position on problem  

in scenario 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Feasible solution and 
No solution Solution provided, Logical solution and implementation plan 

Identifies logical solution and identified but implementation implementation plan developed, and 
aspects of implementation plan not developed provided and developed necessary resources  

identified 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

 
Empathy or 

Displays empathy/diplomacy No empathy or diplomacy displayed Empathy and diplomacy Display of empathy 

when responding to role play diplomacy displayed in response to role displayed in response to and diplomacy skills 
esolution of 

scenario play scenario role play scenario add to r
role play scenario 

 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

No understanding of Terminology is Clear understanding of Terminology is  
Shows knowledge of the role play presented but not terminology and communicated clear 

terminology and components demonstrated expanded on implementation into enough for client 
related to the role play presentation (judge) to proceed on 

their own 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

d,  
Demonstrates conflict No closure was Situation was closed Conflict was resolved, Conflict was resolve

the situation has 
resolution and closure to the provided OR conflict was the situation has 

resolved closure closure, and client 
role play (judge) is satisfied 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

Presentation flowed 
Competitor did not Competitor was Presentation flowed in in a logical sequence; 

Statements are well-organized appear prepared prepared, but flow 
and clearly stated was not logical logical sequence statements were well  

organized 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed skills listed skills (confidence, Demonstrated all 

confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body 
ge, eye body language, eye skills, enhancing the 

language, engaging eye contact, skills langua
contact, or voice contact, or voice overall presentation  

and effective voice projection. projection) projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Interacted with the  

Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 
Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions of completely 

effectively answer questions answering questions 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  
 

Presentation Total (100 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Technology Support & Services - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.