2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Data Science & AI 

 
Data Science & AI challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of data analysis, 
machine learning, and the principles of artificial intelligence through an objective test. This 
event introduces members to the role of data and AI in solving real-world problems and driving 
innovation across industries. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical 

Thinking, Technology 
 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Probability and Statistics 
Foundations  Test Composition

• Data Analysis and Statistics for AI  25
• Tools for Data and AI  
• AI Basics  20

• Machine Learning  15
• Perception, Representation, and 10

Reasoning  
• Privacy and Ethics  5

• Data Literacy and Foundations  0
 
Test questions are based on the knowledge 
areas and objectives outlined for this 
event. Detailed objectives can be found in 
the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Data Science & AI - Page 1 of 5 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Data Science & AI 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Data Science & AI - Page 2 of 5 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Data Science & AI 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

  

Data Science & AI - Page 3 of 5 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Data Science & AI 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Probability and Statistics Foundations (15 test items) 

1. Calculate the mean, median, mode, and range of a dataset 
2. Discuss the use of measures of statistical variance (e.g., standard deviation, variance, 

covariance) 
3. Discuss the characteristics and importance of Gaussian (normal) distribution 
4. Calculate the expected value of a random variable 
5. Differentiate between types of variables (e.g., continuous, discrete) 

 
Data Analysis and Statistics for AI (15 test items) 

1. Select the most appropriate visual medium to display a dataset 
2. Describe different types of diagrams (e.g., boxplots, histograms, scatterplots) 
3. Discuss techniques for working with multivariate data (e.g., dependence and 

interdependence methods, multiple linear and logistic regression) 
4. Discuss the importance of cleaning data 
5. Identify factors that may affect data quality (e.g., duplicates, low quality sources, 

incomplete datasets) 
6. Describe how data science algorithms are applied to real-world problems (e.g., linear 

regression, decision trees, k-means) 
 
Tools for Data and AI (10 test items) 

1. Write queries in SQL 
2. Describe common packages and libraries for working with data and AI (e.g., Pandas, 

NumPy, PyTorch) 
3. Discuss the use of Python for cleaning and wrangling datasets 
4. Discuss the use of R for data science 
5. Describe characteristics of relational databases 

 
AI Basics (10 test items) 

1. Discuss the nature of generative AI 
2. Discuss capabilities and limitations of generative AI 
3. List uses of generative AI (e.g., healthcare, research, digital art) 
4. Describe AI subfields (e.g., computer vision, NLP, human interaction, robotics) 
5. Define large language models (LLMs) 
6. Discuss the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) 

 
Machine Learning (10 test items) 

1. Discuss the nature of machine learning 
2. Describe the use of training, test, and validation datasets 
3. Describe how machine learning algorithms behave (e.g., neural networks, decision 

trees, learning functions) 
4. Characterize unsupervised, supervised, and reinforcement learning algorithms 
5. Select an appropriate machine learning algorithm to solve a reasoning problem (e.g., 

supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement) 
6. Explain the concept of deep learning 

 
Perception, Representation, and Reasoning (10 test items) 

1. Explain how predicate logic is used in AI models 
2. Give examples of predicate logic 

Data Science & AI - Page 4 of 5 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Data Science & AI 

3. Discuss differences between logic-based and probability-based reasoning 
4. Describe Bayesian networks and their components (e.g., nodes, edges, Directed 

Acyclic Graphs) 
5. Discuss the nature of knowledge representation and reasoning for AI 

 
Privacy and Ethics (10 test items) 

1. Discuss dilemmas that arise from AI systems (e.g., self-driving vehicles, generative AI, 
surveillance) 

2. Describe how AI inherits bias (e.g., algorithmic bias) 
3. Discuss security and privacy risks associated with LLMs 
4. Discuss credibility concerns of LLMs (e.g., hallucinations, misinformation) 

 
Data Literacy and Foundations (20 test items) 

1. Discuss the nature of data science 
2. Describe differences between structured and unstructured data 
3. Identify numeric and categorical data points 
4. Convert among common data representations (e.g., binary, hexadecimal, decimal) 
5. Describe the types of data that could be gathered from various sources 
6. Describe the importance of data wrangling and transformation 
7. Describe the stages of the data science process 

 
References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

AI4K12. Grade Band Progression Charts. https://ai4k12.org/gradeband-progression-charts/ 

Association for Computing Machinery. Computing Competencies for Undergraduate Data Science 
Curricula. https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/curricula-
recommendations/dstf_ccdsc2021.pdf  

CodeHS. Intro to AI Syllabus. https://codehs.com/uploads/224a0c7cb8de30b494ec9c2286a73a28  

Google Cloud. What is artificial intelligence (AI). https://cloud.google.com/learn/what-is-artificial-
intelligence 

Harvard. Data Science Principles. https://www.harvardonline.harvard.edu/course/data-science-
principles  

IBM. IBM Data Science Professional Certificate. https://www.coursera.org/professional-
certificates/ibm-data-science/  

Youcubed. DS Learning Objectives and Standards by Unit. 
https://hsdatascience.youcubed.org/resources-standards-and-course-approval/ 

 
 
 

Data Science & AI - Page 5 of 5 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.