2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

 
Entrepreneurship challenges members to demonstrate their knowledge of what it takes to start 
and manage a successful business. Through an objective test and a role play scenario, members 
apply entrepreneurial concepts such as business planning, innovation, risk management, and 
strategic decision-making. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Business Plan  
• Financial Management  Test Composition
• Initial Capital and Credit  

25
• Marketing Management  20
• Personnel Management  15

10
• Taxes  5
• Community/Business 0

Relations  
• Government Regulations  
• Legal Issues  

 
Test questions and role plays are based on the knowledge statements and objectives outlined 
for this event. Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Entrepreneurship - Page 1 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in)  
 

Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 
• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 

Entrepreneurship - Page 2 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

 
 

Entrepreneurship - Page 3 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

Role Play Prompt  
• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a entrepreneurship–related 

scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy 
must be shared among team members and may only be accessed within the 
designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 
 

Entrepreneurship - Page 4 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
 

  

Entrepreneurship - Page 5 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Business Plan 

1. Explain the benefits and liabilities of starting a business. 
2. Identify characteristics and technical skills needed by entrepreneurs. 
3. Evaluate the types of business ownership/organization structure and 

understand the advantages and disadvantages of each. 
4. Conduct initial feasibility study by identifying industry trends, competition, and 

market segment using various research techniques. 
5. Select a business opportunity based on research. 
6. Create a company vision, mission, and short- and/or long-term strategic goals 

and plans. 
7. Determine business start-up date and location. 
8. Develop and implement financial/budgeting plans including start-up costs and 

funding needed to begin the business. 
9. Develop an organizational chart with staffing/human resource plans including 

job descriptions and recruitment techniques. 
10. Prepare a management plan that incorporates legal requirements, business 

protection, quality control, and operations. 
B. Financial Management 

1. Select accounting system to apply good accounting practices. 
2. Plan and maintain a budget. 
3. Record business transactions to track business activities and manage cash and 

banking procedures. 
4. Collect and interpret financial data to prepare financial statements such as 

balance sheet, income statement, cash flow projections, and summary of sales 
and receipts. 

5. Interpret financial data and statements to develop short- and long-term 
budgetary plans, to determine point of profitability and viability, and to analyze 
cash flow forecast. 

6. Apply computational skills to computerized financial documents. 
C. Initial Capital and Credit 

1. Identify types of sources of credit and credit terms. 
2. Compare costs, qualifications, and procedures for various forms of credit. 
3. Describe concepts of risk management including factors that affect business 

risk and rate of return. 
4. Complete credit forms and applications. 
5. Discuss methods of solving credit problems. 
6. Describe concept of credit worthiness as it relates to credit records, ratings, 

reports, and laws. 
7. Identify and maintain records of the initial capital assets (current assets; 

investments; property, plant, and equipment; and intangible assets). 
D. Marketing Management 

1. Define the industry characteristics, major competitors, and market segment. 
2. Determine, maintain, and improve the marketing mix (product, price, place, 

and promotion). 

Entrepreneurship - Page 6 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

3. Apply strategies for determining and adjusting prices to maximize return and 
meet customer’s perceptions of value. 

4. Develop and deliver effective customer relation skills to provide good customer 
service. 

5. Establish selling philosophies to develop customer loyalty and profitability. 
6. Utilize standard processes to move, store, locate, and transfer ownership of 

goods and services. 
7. Disseminate information about products/services or firm to achieve a desired 

outcome for a product or service. 
8. Gather, access, synthesize, evaluate, and disseminate marketing information to 

make business decisions. 
9. Identify current business trends to recognize changes needed in business 

operation. 
E. Personnel Management 

1. Prepare organization chart and job descriptions to expedite workflow. 
2. Develop, explain, and maintain written personnel policies, rules and 

procedures including a grievance system, to ensure consistency and to help 
employees perform their jobs. 

3. Evaluate the effects of employee absenteeism, errors, or other negative 
employee relations on business productivity. 

4. Plan, develop, and implement employee orientation and ongoing training 
programs. 

5. Develop employee recruitment plan to obtain qualified employees. 
6. Develop and manage an organization’s salary administration and benefits 

program to service employees with options and benefits. 
7. Develop and implement a plan for evaluation of employee presentation and 

productivity. 
8. Develop separation, termination, and transition procedures for processing 

employee personnel actions. 
9. Develop and communicate to employees the customer relations policy. 
10. Plan and manage work schedules and personnel to maximize operations. 
11. Maintain safe and healthful working conditions. 
12. Identify and explore career opportunities to create a professional growth and 

development plan. 
13. Exhibit positive work behaviors and personal qualities to enhance the work 

environment. 
14. Motivate and supervise personnel to achieve completion of projects and 

company goals. 
F. Taxes 

1. Demonstrate knowledge of the current state and federal regulations to apply 
the tax code professionally. 

2. Use tax preparation procedures to determine tax liability for the organization. 
3. Analyze tax structures and consequences to assist in business decision making. 
4. Establish a tax plan to incorporate the impact of tax consequences on business 

decisions. 
5. Apply regulations regarding employee/employer taxes. 

Entrepreneurship - Page 7 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 

6. Complete and implement state sales tax requirements and regulations. 
G. Community/Business Relations 

1. Recognize the importance of union-management relationship and contracts to 
ensure business continuity. 

2. Examine federal, state, and local current events to determine their impact on 
the organization. 

3. Develop and implement a public relations program for the company. 
4. Apply ethical conduct in business relationships and community activities. 
5. Explain role of business in the community. 
6. Use appropriate methods to communicate business activities with the 

community and clients/customers. 
H. Government Regulations 

1. Define, interpret, and apply federal, state, and local regulations to small 
business ownership. 

2. Exhibit ethical conduct in business negotiations and decisions. 
3. Understand the role of government in business. 
4. Identify and keep current with laws and regulations that affect business 

practices. 
I. Legal Issues 

1. Select professional advisors, for example accountant, attorney, and insurance 
agent. 

2. Develop procedures for the legal review of documents and procedures, such as 
contracts. 

3. Develop procedures to retain records. 
4. Demonstrate knowledge of social, ethical, and legal issues for small businesses. 
5. Demonstrate knowledge and apply consumer protection laws. 
6. Explain expressed and implied warranties for sale of goods. 
7. Apply legal interpretations to employee situations, retention of records, safety 

and security issues, and financial data.   

Entrepreneurship - Page 8 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Entrepreneurship 
Entrepreneurship Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Demonstrated Below Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Points 
Expectations Earned 

No description or role Describes and Describes and Demonstrates 
Demonstrates play synopsis provides role play provides role play expertise of role play 

understanding of the provided; no problems synopsis OR defines synopsis AND defines synopsis AND 
role play and defines  

defined the problem(s) the problem(s) definition of the 
problem(s) to be solved problem(s) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

ve(s) given but At least two Multiple alternatives 
Identifies alternatives No alternatives Alternati alternatives given, and given and multiple 

d the pro(s) and identified pro(s) and/or con(s) 
an are not analyzed pro(s) and con(s) are pros and cons  

con(s) of each analyzed analyzed for each 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Feasible solution and 
Solution provided, but Logical solution and implementation plan 

Identifies logical No solution identified implementation plan implementation plan developed, and 
solution and aspects of not developed provided and necessary resources  

implementation developed identified 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

 
Demonstrates 
knowledge and 

understanding of the 
event knowledge areas: 

Business Plan, 
No knowledge areas One or two knowledge Three knowledge Four or more 

Community and business 
legal issues, demonstrated areas are areas are knowledge areas are 

relations, demonstrated demonstrated demonstrated 
initial capital and 
credit, personnel 

management, financial 
management, marketing 

management, taxes, 
government regulations 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

ompetitor(s) were Presentation flowed in 
Statements are well- Competitor(s) did not C in a logical sequence; 
organized and clearly appear prepared prepared, but flow Presentation flowed 

was not logical logical sequence statements were well  
stated organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Consistently displays Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
confidence, poised Did not demonstrate the listed skills listed skills Demonstrated all 

body language, engaging any of the listed skills (confidence, body (confidence, body skills, enhancing the 
eye contact, and language, eye contact, language, eye contact, overall presentation  
effective voice or voice projection) or voice projection) 

projection. 0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Interacted with the  

Demonstrates the ability Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 
to effectively answer questions answer questions questions of completely 

questions answering questions 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  
Presentation Total (100 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Entrepreneurship - Page 9 of 9 – Updated August 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.
