2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  

 
Future Business Leader is FBLA’s premier event recognizing members who exemplify 
leadership, business knowledge, and active involvement in the organization. Competitors are 
evaluated through pre-judged assets, an objective test, and a presentation (interview), 
showcasing their readiness for success in business and leadership roles. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Presentation 
Event Elements Pre-judged Asset, Objective Test, and 

Presentation 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical 

Thinking, Communication, Leadership, 
Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 
There is no test composition available for this objective test. Visit www.fbla.org for access to 
information about FBLA. 
 

• FBLA Organization 
• FBLA Bylaws & Handbook 
• FBLA National Competitive Event Guidelines 
• FBLA National Publications 
• FBLA Mission, Pledge and Goals 
• General Business and Technology Knowledge (including, but not limited to, accounting, 

banking, law, entrepreneurship, marketing, international business, management, 
organizational leadership, information technology, cybersecurity) 

 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Future Business Leader - Page 1 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  

 

National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Preliminary & • Conference-provided nametag • Chair for Competitor 
Final Round • Photo identification  

• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress 
Code 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Competitor Responsibility: Only registered competitors are permitted to plan, 

research, prepare, and set up their presentations. Advisers and others may not assist. 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

Future Business Leader - Page 2 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of four phases: a pre-judged asset, an objective test, preliminary 
presentation (interview), and a final presentation (interview). 
 
Pre-judged Asset Details: Cover Letter & Resume 

Submission Deadline 
• A PDF of the cover letter and resume must be uploaded through the conference 

registration system by the state-specified deadline. 
Asset Requirements: 

• Cover Letter Specifics 
o Must be no longer than one page. 
o Should clearly state why the competitor is deserving of this award. 
o Address the letter to: Jennifer Woods, President and CEO, Future Business 

Leaders of America, 12100 Sunset Hills Drive, Suite 200, Reston, VA 20190 
• Resume Specifics 

o Must not exceed two pages in length. 
o Should include the competitor’s education, extracurricular activities, awards 

and honors, FBLA involvement, and work or volunteer experience. 
o Photographs are not permitted on the résumé. 

• Assets must be formatted to fit standard 8.5” x 11” paper. 
• Links and QR codes are not permitted. 
• Advisers or others may not assist in preparing the asset. It must be created 

entirely by the competitor(s). 
• All content must be original and created specifically for this competition. 
• Note: The assets do not need to follow the FBLA Production Test Reference Guide, 

formerly known as the FBLA Format Guide.  
Judging & Ownership 

• Assets will be judged prior to the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Pre-judged assets will not be returned. All submitted projects become the 

property of FBLA and may be published or reproduced for promotional purposes. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. Note: There is 
no objective test composition/question breakdown available for this competition. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Future Business Leader - Page 3 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Preliminary Presentation Details: Interview 

Timing Structure 
• Equipment Set-Up: 0 minutes 
• Presentation: 10 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): 0 minutes 

Venue & Format 
• Presentations occur in-person at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Competitors are randomly assigned to presentation sections. 
• Presentations will take place in a large, open area with a designated space of 

approximately 10' x 10', which includes a table and chairs for the judges. 
• The preliminary round is closed to conference attendees and audience. 

Technology Guidelines 
• Internet Access: Not Provided 
• No technology may be brought to the interview. 

Non-Technology Items 
• No materials may be brought to the interview. 
• No items may be left with the judges following the presentation. 

 
Final Presentation Details: Interview 

Timing Structure 
• Equipment Set-Up: 0 minutes 
• Presentation: 10 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): 0 minutes 

Advancement to Finals 
• The top-scoring competitors from each preliminary section will advance to the 

final round in equal numbers. 
• The number of competitors advancing to the final round depends on the number 

of preliminary sections: 
• 2 sections: Top 6 from each section advance 
• 3 sections: Top 4 from each section advance 
• 4 sections: Top 3 from each section advance 
• 5 sections: Top 3 from each section advance 
• More than 5 sections: Top 2 from each section advance 

Future Business Leader - Page 4 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  

Venue & Format 
• Presentations occur in-person at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Presentations will take place in a large, open area with a designated space of 

approximately 10' x 10', which includes a table and chairs for the judges. 
• The final round is closed to conference attendees and audience. 

Technology Guidelines 
• Internet Access: Not Provided 
• No technology may be brought to the interview. 

Non-Technology Items 
• No materials may be brought to the interview. 
• No items may be left with the judges following the presentation 

 
Scoring 

• The pre-judged asset score, objective test and preliminary presentation (interview) 
round scores will be added together to determine which competitors advance to the 
final round from each section. 

• The final presentation score determines the top winners. 
• Pre-judged asset score will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
  

Future Business Leader - Page 5 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  
Future Business Leader Pre-Judged Assets Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Demonstrated Below 
Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Expectations Points 

Earned 
States award and shows 

Award stated does States award and shows match of award to 
Cover Letter: States No award stated not match match of award to qualifications with 
award applying for qualification qualifications demonstrated  

experience 
0 points 1 point 2-3 points 4 points 

Describes skills cribes skills, 
Cover Letter: Promotes and academic Describes skills, Des

self in letter – lists No self-promotion achievements, but academic academic achievements, 
included no volunteerism or achievements, and and multiple 

skills, achievements,  or volunteerism or  
volunteerism, experience volunteerism

included experience experiences 
experience, etc. 

0 points 1-3 points 4-6 points 7-8 points 
States resume is 

Cover Letter: States that No resume statement States resume 
 but does States resume is included, asks for 

the resume is included nor interview included
sk for included and asks for interview, provides 

with the letter and asks requested not a
interview interview opportunity to request  

for interview more information 
0 points 1 point 2-3 points 4 points 

Targeted award  
Resume: Targets award No award targeted does not match Targeted award Resume supports 

argeted award on cover 
on cover letter cover letter matches cover letter t

letter 
0 points 1 point 2-3 points 4 points 

Resume: Reader friendly  
– categories can be Resume is reader Resume is professional in 
found easily, white Resume is unreadable Resume design is 

distracting friendly design for targeted 
space utilized, award 

professional fonts and 
font sizes 0 points 1-3 points 4-6 points 7-8 points 

Resume: Includes No education,  
education, activities, activities, ections 
awards/honors, FBLA volunteerism, One-two sections Three-four sections Five or more s

support targeted award 
experience and experience included included 

volunteerism/work information listed 
experience information 

0 points 1-3 points 4-6 points 7-8 points 

Information Sections are clearly Clearly identified and 
rganized information in 

Resume: Brief, concise Resume not included provided, but in identified with o
each section supports 

information paragraph form organized information  
targeted award 

0 points 1 point 2-3 points 4 points 

No spelling errors, and No spelling or 
Spelling & Grammar:  1 grammatical errors, and 

Documents are free of Three or more errors Two errors not more than
punctuation or not more than 1 

spelling, punctuation,  
grammatical error punctuation error 

and grammatical errors 
0 points 1-2 points 3-4 points 5 points 

Cover letter longer than one page, not Cover letter no more than one page, addressed  
addressed correctly; Resume longer than two correctly; Resume no more than two pages, no 

All directions followed pages, photograph or QR code included photograph or QR code included; documents 
submitted as PDF 

0 points 5 points 
 

Pre-judged Assets Total (50 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 
 
 

Future Business Leader - Page 6 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Future Business Leader  
Future Business Leader Presentation Interview Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Demonstrated Below 
Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Expectations Points 

Earned 
Has not been involved Has limited 
in FBLA other than to participation in Can communicate Can explain how 

Illustrates participation pay membership dues FBLA activities OR participation in FBLA participation and 
dership experiences in 

and leadership and attend one has had limited throughout high school lea
FBLA leadership and discuss leadership FBLA have transferred to  

experiences in FBLA state/national 
conference opportunities experiences in FBLA other areas of life 

0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 

No evidence of Participates in only Explains how participation 
participation in other one additional Explains participation in in FBLA has 

Explains participation in school and/or school and/or other school and/or complemented or 
other school and/or community community community enhanced other school  

community organizations organizations organization other organizations and/or community 
than FBLA organizations 

0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 

Has limited areas of Can explain how 
Explains and shows areas No other achievements outstanding Can explain and show participation in FBLA has 

 of outstanding complemented or 
of outstanding outside of FBLA achievement other areas

t enhanced other areas of  
achievement than FBLA achievemen

outstanding achievement 
0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 

May have an idea for Can discuss how career  
a career but has Knows career plans and plans were decided and 

Indicates understanding of No career plans at this developed no solid shows some evidence how the plans will be 
reer knowledge and time plans OR obtained that the career achieved. Can also discuss 

ca w the career knowledge 
career plans any career knowledge has been ho

knowledge obtained was acquired and how it 
will be used 

0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 
Presentation Delivery 

Creative in their 
Does not use proper Greeting, Strong greeting, introduction of themselves 

Demonstrates proper greeting, introduction introduction, OR introduction AND and asks for or provides 
greeting, introduction, OR closing closing was weak closing follow-up action in the  

and closing conclusion 
0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 

Did not demonstrate Demonstrated 
Demonstrates strong self- self-confidence, minimal self- Used strong eye Led the interview process 
confidence, appropriate assertiveness, OR confidence, contact, appropriate and effectively used 

assertiveness, and enthusiasm assertiveness, AND assertiveness, AND 

enthusiasm enthusiasm enthusiasm interview time  

0 points 1-8 points 9-12 points 13-15 points 
Verbal and/or All questions were 

Verbal AND nonverbal nonverbal clearly answered using Verbal communication  
Demonstrates proper communication skills communication good grammar and skills are excellent; 
verbal and nonverbal are inappropriate skills are weak or appropriate body nonverbal communication 
communication skills distracting language is natural 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Presentation Protocols 

Execution Aligned with Guidelines: (All criteria must be met)  
Competitor(s) Did Not  No technology used 

Adherence to Competitive Follow Guidelines  Did not bring materials to the interview 
Events Guidelines  Did not leave materials behind after the presentation 

0 points 10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

Presentation Total (110 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 
Future Business Leader - Page 7 of 7 – Updated August 18, 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.