2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts 

 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts allows members to demonstrate their understanding of 
foundational marketing principles through an objective test. This event introduces topics such 
as product promotion, pricing strategies, consumer behavior, and the methods used to 
effectively sell goods and services. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School (9th & 10th graders only) 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Marketing & Sales 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Marketing Fundamentals  
• Product/Service Test Composition

Management 25
• Channel Management   20
• Marketing-Information 

Management  15

• Pricing  10

• Promotion  5
• Selling  0

 
Test questions are based on the 
knowledge areas and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the study 
guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Introduction to Marketing Concepts - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Introduction to Marketing Concepts - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 
 

Introduction to Marketing Concepts - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Introduction to Marketing Concepts - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Marketing Fundamentals (20 test items) 

1. Describe marketing functions and related activities (MK:002, LAP-MK-002) (CS) 
2. Explain marketing and its importance in a global economy (MK:001, LAP-MK-901) (CS) 
3. Explain the concept of market and market identification (MP:003, LAP-MP-003) (CS) 
4. Explain the concept of marketing strategies (MP:001, LAP-MP-001) (CS) 
5. Explain employment opportunities in marketing (PD:024, LAP-PD-024) (CS) 
6. Explain factors that influence customer/client/business buying behavior (MK:014, LAP-

MK-014) (SP) 
7. Explain the nature of marketing planning (MP:006) (SP) 
8. Explain the nature of marketing plans (MP:007, LAP-MP-007) (SP) 

 
Product/Service Management (20 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of the product/service management function (PM:001, 
LAP-PM-001) (SP) 

2. Identify the impact of product life cycles on marketing decisions (PM:024, LAP-PM-
024) (SP) 

3. Describe the uses of grades and standards in marketing (PM:019, LAP-PM-019) (CS) 
4. Explain warranties and guarantees (PM:020, LAP-PM-920) (CS) 
5. Explain the concept of the product mix (PM:003, LAP-PM-003) (SP) 
6. Describe factors used by marketers to position products/services (PM:042, LAP-PM-

042) (SP) 
7. Explain the nature of product/service branding (PM:021, LAP-PM-021) (SP) 

 
Channel Management (10 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of channel management (CM:001, LAP-CM-001) (CS) 
2. Explain the nature of channels of distribution (CM:003, LAP-CM-003) (CS) 
3. Describe the use of technology in the channel management function (CM:004) (CS) 

 
Marketing-Information Management (10 test items) 

1. Describe the need for marketing data (IM:012, LAP-IM-012) (CS) 

Introduction to Marketing Concepts - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Marketing Concepts 

 
2. Identify data monitored for marketing decision making (IM:184, LAP-IM-184) (SP) 
3. Explain the nature and scope of the marketing-information management function 

(IM:001, LAP-IM-001) (SP) 
4. Explain the nature of marketing research (IM:010, LAP-IM-010) (SP) 

 
Pricing (5 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of the pricing function (PI:001, LAP-PI-001) (SP) 
2. Explain factors affecting pricing decisions (PI:002, LAP-PI-902) (SP)  

 
Promotion (15 test items) 

1. Explain the role of promotion as a marketing function (PR:001, LAP-PR-901) (CS) 
2. Explain the types of promotion (i.e., institutional, product) (PR:002, LAP-PR-902) (CS) 
3. Identify the elements of the promotional mix (PR:003, LAP-PR-903) (SP) 
4. Explain types of advertising media (PR:007, LAP-PR-007) (SP) 

 
Selling (20 test items) 

1. Explain the nature and scope of the selling function (SE:017, LAP-SE-017) (CS) 
2. Explain the role of customer service as a component of selling relationships (SE:076, 

LAP-SE-076) (CS) 
3. Acquire product information for use in selling (SE:062, LAP-SE-062) (CS) 
4. Explain the selling process (SE:048, LAP-SE-048) (CS) 
5. Explain company selling policies (SE:932, LAP-SE-932) (CS) 
6. Analyze product information to identify product features and benefits (SE:109, LAP-

SE-109) (SP) 
 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

Investopedia. Understanding marketing in business: Key strategies and types. 
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/marketing.asp  

Wolters Kluwer. Business success depends upon successful marketing. 
https://www.wolterskluwer.com/en/expert-insights/business-success-depends-upon-
successful-marketing  

HubSpot. What is marketing, and what’s its purpose? https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/what-is-
marketing#what-is-marketing  

 

 

Introduction to Marketing Concepts - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.