2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
Introduction to Information Technology challenges members to demonstrate their 
understanding of fundamental IT concepts through an objective test. This event introduces 
members to key areas such as computer systems, software, networks, and data management, 
highlighting how technology is used to organize and deliver information in business settings. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School (9th & 10th graders only) 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Computer Hardware  
• Test Composition

Software Fundamentals  
• Operating Systems  25
• Software Applications  20
• Modern Technologies  15
• Networking Concepts  10
• Information Management 5

Concepts  
 0

Test questions are based on the 
knowledge areas and objectives outlined 
for this event. Detailed objectives can be 
found in the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 1 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 2 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an objective test administered online during the 

National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
 
 

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 3 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 4 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Computer Hardware (20 test items) 

1. Describe different types of computers and their use cases (mainframe, personal, 
tablet, supercomputer, etc.) 

2. Discuss common computer hardware components and their functions (e.g., CPU, RAM, 
hard drive) 

3. Troubleshoot common computer hardware problems 
4. Explain the purposes of expansion cards (e.g., graphics cards, sound cards, network 

adapters) 
5. Evaluate decisions regarding the purchase and upgrade of computer hardware 
6. Describe computer storage devices (e.g., SSD, HDD, external drives) 
7. Explain the steps of basic hardware installation and configuration 
8. Evaluate the performance of computer system components (CPU, GPU, etc.) 
9. Discuss connectivity devices and peripherals (e.g., printers, scanners, USB devices, 

Bluetooth) 
10. Interpret hardware requirements for running software 

 
Software Fundamentals (10 test items) 

1. Distinguish between system, application, and specialized software 
2. Explain the importance of software updates and patches 
3. Explain the functions of various system utilities (e.g., antivirus, disk management, 

backup tools) 
4. Describe appropriate use cases for specialized software applications 
5. Identify the steps of the Software Development Life Cycle 
6. Describe how software interacts with hardware to perform tasks 

 
Operating Systems (15 test items) 

1. Explain the purpose and functions of operating systems 
2. Discuss types of operating systems (e.g., mobile, desktop) 
3. Troubleshoot common operating system issues (e.g., blue screen of death, crashing, 

boot issues) 
4. Discuss the characteristics of different platform operating systems (e.g., Windows, 

macOS, Linux, Android, iOS) 
5. Discuss basic operating system processes (e.g., booting and partitioning, caching, 

virtual memory, file systems) 
6. Apply basic command-line utilities for Windows and Unix-like systems (e.g., file 

management, process monitoring, troubleshooting) 
7. Describe steps for configuring an operating system (e.g., account setup and 

management, permissions, updates) 
 
Software Applications (10 test items) 

1. Evaluate the most appropriate type of application for a business task (e.g., word 
processing, spreadsheet, email, presentation) 

2. Discuss the uses of common workplace applications (e.g., word processing, 
spreadsheet, email, collaboration) 

3. Describe email application features used in business and collaboration contexts 
4. Explain the functions of team collaboration software (e.g., Microsoft Teams, Zoom) 

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 5 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
5. Troubleshoot common email problems (e.g., spam, not receiving emails, fraud, 

phishing) 
 
Modern Technologies (10 test items) 

1. Describe the function and applications of the cloud 
2. Describe the purpose and applications of virtualization 
3. Describe the Internet of Things (IoT) 
4. Discuss use cases for artificial intelligence 
5. Describe the nature of artificial intelligence 

 
Networking Concepts (20 test items) 

1. Describe different types of networks (e.g., LAN, WAN) 
2. Describe basic network security practices (e.g., encryption, VPN, packet sniffing, 

authentication) 
3. Discuss common network security threats (e.g., viruses, phishing, backdoors) 
4. Describe different connectivity technologies (e.g., Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth) 
5. Discuss the functions of common network devices (e.g., modems, routers, switches) 
6. Discuss types of network environments (e.g., peer-to-peer, client-server, thin client) 
7. Explain relationships between major network components (e.g., servers, clients, 

switches) 
8. Describe each layer of the Open System Interconnection (OSI) model 
9. Explain basic networking protocols (e.g., TCP/IP, UDP, DHCP, SMP) 
10. Discuss the characteristics of network topologies (e.g., star, bus, ring) 
11. Describe tools and procedures for troubleshooting networks (e.g., ping, tracert, 

checking cable connections) 
 
Information Management Concepts (15 test items) 

1. Describe data storage methods (local, cloud, etc.) 
2. Discuss basic database operations and use cases 
3. Explain the importance of disaster recovery and list examples 
4. Discuss physical and digital security practices to protect information 
5. Describe ways in which personal data is collected, stored, stolen, and sold 
6. Explain regulations pertaining to intellectual property, privacy, and licensing 

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 
 
Association for Computing Machinery. Information Technology Curricula 2017. 

https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/curricula-
recommendations/it2017.pdf  

Codecademy. Introduction to IT. https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-it  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification Exam Core 1 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1101-exam-
objectives-(3-0)  

CompTIA. CompTIA A+ Certification exam Core 2 Objectives. 
https://partners.comptia.org/docs/default-source/resources/comptia-a-220-1102-exam-
objectives-(3-0) 

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 6 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Information Technology 

 
Mississippi Department of Education. Intro to Information Technology. 

https://www.mdek12.org/sites/default/files/documents/MBE/MBE-2023(4)/tab-h.5.-intro-
to-information-tech_0.pdf  

Ohio Department of Education. Information Technology Content Standards 2018. 
https://education.ohio.gov/getattachment/Topics/Career-Tech/Career-Fields/Information-
Technology-Career-Field/IT_Standards_2018.pdf.aspx?lang=en-US 

 
 

Introduction to Information Technology - Page 7 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.