2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Journalism 

 
Journalism challenges members to demonstrate their knowledge of journalistic principles, 
media ethics, and the business of news through an objective test. This event encourages 
exploration of topics such as news writing, reporting, editing, and the evolving role of 
journalism in a digital economy. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School  
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Arts, Entertainment, & Design 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking 
 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Economics & Business of Test Composition

Journalism  
• 40

Grammar & Format 
• Law & Ethics 20

• Basic Journalism Principles 0

• History of Journalism 
 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

Journalism - Page 1 of 4 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Journalism 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
Journalism - Page 2 of 4 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Journalism 

 
Scoring 

• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

Sample Preparation Resources 
• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 

the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Journalism - Page 3 of 4 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Journalism 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 

A. Economics and Business of Journalism 
1. Identify the major funding sources that impact journalism, journalists, and 

publications. 
2. Examine the economic impacts of social media on the journalism industry. 
3. Identify the funding sources that allow for publications and news reporting. 
4. Identify the education needed for different careers in journalism. 
5. Understand the ranking structure and hierarchy of a journalistic environment. 
6. Identify the potential salary opportunities for careers in journalism. 
7. Identify the major funding sources for journalism. 
8. Identify the major expenses for journalism. 
9. Examine the economic impacts of digital and social media on the journalism 

industry. 
B. Grammar & Format 

1. Identify perspectives and how they are used in journalism. 
2. Understand different types of abbreviations and how they are used correctly. 
3. Understand what type of formats are used in different media sources. 
4. Understand media terminology such as alliteration, onomatopoeia, simile, 

metaphor. 
C. Law and Ethics 

1. Identify major laws that impact journalism. 
2. Understand the ethical boundaries most important to journalists, specifically when 

it relates to sources and sharing of information. 
3. Understand the impacts of ethical decisions made by journalists on society and the 

individuals involved. 
4. Identify major historical events related to journalism ethics. 

D. Basic Journalism Principles 
1. Define journalism. 
2. Understand common principles that determine newsworthiness of an item. 
3. Explain how news values remain true year over year, regardless of societal changes. 
4. Explain the basic questions used in news gathering. 
5. Define the role of sources in journalism. 
6. Understand how strong leads define a story. 

E. History of Journalism 
1. Explain the constitutional amendments as they relate to the practice of journalism. 
2. Identify the major players in the history of journalism and what role they played in 

the industry. 
3. Explain the role of journalists in war and battle. 
4. Understand the history of the major players in the journalism industry and the 

impacts they have had. 
5. Understand timelines and transitions in style, medium, and circulation of different 

types of publications. 
6. Identify and understand different awards presented in journalism, including major 

recipients and milestones in the industry related to these awards. 
 

 

Journalism - Page 4 of 4 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.
