2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Retail Management (High School) 

 
Retail Management challenges high school members to demonstrate their understanding of 
core retail operations and strategies through an objective test. Members are assessed on key 
knowledge areas such as inventory control, , sales techniques, merchandising, and product mix. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School  
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Marketing & Sales 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking 
 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Foundational Retail Knowledge  Test Composition
• Selling  
• Pricing  25

• Market Planning  20

• Inventory Control  15

• Visual Merchandising  10

• Display Techniques  5
• Product Mix  0

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge 
areas and objectives outlined for this 
event. Detailed objectives can be found in 
the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Retail Management - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Retail Management (High School) 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Retail Management - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Retail Management (High School) 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 
 

Retail Management - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Retail Management (High School) 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Retail Management - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Retail Management (High School) 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Foundational Retail Knowledge (10 test items) 

1. Distinguish between retailing and marketing (MK:003) (CS) 
2. Explain the nature and scope of distribution (OP:522) (CS) 
3. Analyze the impact of technology on retailing (NF:041) (SP) 
4. Obtain information from retail databases to aid in product planning and control 

(NF:104) (SP) 
 
Selling (20 test items) 

1. Demonstrate good/service (SE:374, LAP-SE-374) (SP) 
2. Convert customer/client objections into selling points (SE:874, LAP-SE-874) (SP) 
3. Close the sale (SE:895, LAP-SE-895) (SP) 
4. Demonstrate suggestion selling (SE:875, LAP-SE-875) (SP) 
5. Process retail sales documentation (SE:117) (SP) 
6. Provide information about incoming merchandise to sales staff (SE:396) (SP) 
7. Monitor on-floor selling activities (SE:389) (SP) 

 
Pricing (10 test items) 

1. Select approach for setting a base price (cost, demand, competition) (PI:018) (MN) 
2. Determine cost of product (breakeven, ROI, markup) (PI:019) (MN) 
3. Calculate break-even point (PI:006, LAP-PI-006) (MN) 
4. Set prices (PI:007) (MN) 

 
Market Planning (10 test items) 

1. Profile target customer (MP:027) (MN) 
2. Determine market needs (MP:025) (MN) 
3. Determine customer demand for merchandise (MP:033) (MN) 

 
Warehousing and Transportation (5 test items) 

1. Explain shipping processes (OP:405) (CS) 
2. Identify factors considered when selecting best shipping method (OP:406) (SP) 
3. Plan storage space (OP:404) (MN) 

Retail Management - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Retail Management (High School) 

 
Inventory Control (15 test items) 

1. Allocate merchandise to stores/regions (OP:411) (SP) 
2. Track stock by location for department/class/vendor level (OP:412) (SP) 
3. Explain types of unit inventory-control systems (OP:414) (SP) 
4. Determine inventory shrinkage (OP:415) (SP) 
5. Maintain inventory-control systems (OP:416) (SP) 

 
Visual Merchandising (10 test items) 

1. Place merchandise for impact (PR:342) (SP) 
2. Determine on-floor assortments (PR:284) (SP) 
3. Use cross-merchandising techniques (PR:358) (SP) 
4. Read/Implement planograms (PR:349) (SP) 

 
Display Techniques (10 test items) 

1. Create promotional signs (PR:109) (SP) 
2. Select and use display fixtures/forms (PR:031) (SP) 
3. Create displays (PR:047) (SP) 

 
Product Mix (10 test items) 

1. Determine quality of merchandise to offer (PM:223) (SP) 
2. Determine width and depth of assortment strategies (PM:225) (MN) 
3. Select mix of brands (PM:256) (MN) 
4. Plan merchandise assortment (e.g., styling, sizes, quantities, colors) (PM:254) (SP)   

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

American Public University. Why study retail management? The various reasons. 
https://www.apu.apus.edu/area-of-study/business-and-management/resources/why-study-
retail-management--the-various-reasons/ 

Brightpearl. Retail management. https://www.brightpearl.com/retail-management 

Indeed. What is retail management? (Definition and responsibilities). https://www.indeed.com/career-
advice/finding-a-job/what-is-retail-management 

 

 

 

Retail Management - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.