2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

 
Advertising challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of advertising principles 
and strategies through an objective test. This event explores topics such as media planning, 
branding, consumer behavior, and promotional techniques used to effectively reach target 
audiences. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Marketing & Sales 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Professionalism, Technology 

 
 Knowledge Areas 
The number of questions per knowledge area is in parentheses.  

• Basic Marketing Functions (4) • Channels of Distribution & Supply 
• Personal Selling & Sales Promotion (4) Chain Management (4) 
• Traditional Advertising Media (4) • Types of Promotion (2) 
• Alternative Forms of Advertising Media • Marketing Research for Advertising (2) 

(4) • Developing an Effective Sales 
• Branding & Positioning (4) Promotion Strategy (2) 
• Advertising & the Economy (4) • Consumer-Oriented Advertising & Sales 
• Promotion (3) Promotion (2) 
• Advertising & Public Relations (3) • Types of Communication (2) 
• The Advertising Plan (4) • Effective Advertising & Promotional 
• Creation of the Advertisement (3) Messages (2) 
• Consumer-Oriented Advertising (3) • Legal & Ethical Issues Affecting 
• Financial Planning for Advertising (5) Advertising (2) 
• Consumer Behavior (3) • Ethics in Advertising (2) 
• Consumer Purchase Classifications (4) • Advertising in a Multicultural Market (5) 
• Influences on Consumer Behavior (2) • Diversity & Advertising (2) 
• The Target Market (2) • History of Advertising (1) 
• Market Segmentation (4) • Influences on Advertising (1) 
• Product Development (2) • The Advertising Industry & Careers (2) 
• Product Life Cycle (2) • The Internet & Advertising (1) 
• Price Planning (2) • Self-Regulation (1) 

• Cross-Cultural Communication (1) 
 

Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 

Advertising - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

Advertising - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

Advertising - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

Sample Preparation Resources 
• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 

the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Advertising - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Basic Marketing Functions 

1. Explain the marketing concepts and describe the benefits of marketing. 
2. Explain the functions in marketing goods and services. 
3. Identify the elements of the marketing mix (product, price, place, and promotion). 
4. Describe the process for new product and service development. 
5. Explain the rationale for extending product line. 
6. Explain the functions of packaging. 
7. Describe the importance of branding, packaging, and labeling. 
8. Describe factors (features, benefits, price, quality, competition, brand loyalty) used 

by marketers to position products and services. 
9. Identify and explain factors that influence a product’s price (cost, quality, 

competition, brand loyalty). 
10. Demonstrate knowledge of basic advertising terms. 

B. Personal Selling and Sales Promotion 
1. Explain the steps involved in the sales process (generate leads, approach 

customers, determine customer needs, present the product, overcome objections, 
close the sale, follow up). 

2. Describe reasons why sales promotion is needed (influence consumer decisions, 
encourage trial of new products, strengthen brand loyalty, influence consumer 
behavior). 

C. Traditional Advertising Media 
1. Describe traditional types of advertising media (television, radio, print, direct mail, 

flyers and brochures, outdoor). 
2. Identify advertising media selection criteria (reach, frequency, lead time, cost). 

D. Alternative Forms of Advertising Media 
1. Recognize alternative forms of advertising media outlets (transit, aerial, cinema, 

product placement, directory). 
2. Describe the latest advertising media trends (video advertising, mobile advertising). 

E. Branding and Positioning 
1. Explain why branding is important to the success of a business. 
2. Describe product positioning strategies. 

F. Advertising and the Economy  
1. Identify economic factors that impact advertising. 
2. Describe how advertising stimulates the economy. 

G. Promotion 
1. Define promotional mix and explain its importance. 
2. Identify the steps in developing the promotional plan. 

H. Advertising and Public Relations 
1. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of advertising. 
2. Explain the need for public relations. 

I. The Advertising Plan 
1. Identify the steps in creating an advertising plan (perform a SWOT analysis, set 

advertising objectives, determine the budget, develop the creative strategy, 
execute the plan, evaluate the plan). 

2. Recognize the various types of analyses that should be performed when creating an 
advertising plan. 

J. Creation of the Advertisement 

Advertising - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

1. Describe different advertising creative formats. 
2. Identify processes involved in the copywriting, art, and production stages of 

advertising. 
3. Describe various methods used to evaluate advertising effectiveness. 
4. Identify simple approaches to use in determining advertising effectiveness. 

K. Consumer-Oriented Advertising 
1. Define consumer-oriented advertising and explain how it is used. 
2. Describe how sponsorships can be used to make a connection with consumers. 

L. Financial Planning for Advertising 
1. Explain strategies used for setting the advertising budgets (percentage of sales, 

competition matching market share, objective and task, response model). 
2. Describe the financial reports a business can use for planning and operating the 

company. 
3. Describe factors that affect the advertising budget. 
4. Determine whether advertising spending generates brand awareness. 
5. Identify the cost for different forms of advertising. 
6. Explain the purpose of an advertising budget. 
7. Explain rate of return on advertising investment. 

M. Consumer Behavior 
1. Recognize the importance of understanding the customer’s wants and needs. 
2. Identify the five-step consumer decision-making process. 

N. Consumer Purchase Classifications 
1. Distinguish between types of consumer purchases and recognize the level of 

consumer involvement in buying decisions. 
2. Describe different types of consumer products. 

O. Influences on Consumer Behavior 
1. Discuss consumer buying motives. 
2. Describe individual, social, and marketing influences on consumer behavior. 

P. The Target Market 
1. Define target market and advertising strategies to reach different targets. 
2. Explain the process for selecting target markets. 

Q. Market Segmentation 
1. Differentiate between market segmentation and mass marketing. 
2. Describe market segmentation categories. 
3. Define demographics. 
4. Explain how demographics influence advertising campaigns. 
5. Differentiate between buying habits and buying preferences. 
6. Explain how to select market segments that have market potential. 

R. Product Development 
1. Identify the stages of new product development. 
2. Explain the various levels of products and components that make up the product 

mix. 
S. Product Life Cycle 

1. Explain the stages of the product life cycle. 
2. Describe real-world applications of the product life cycle. 

T. Price Planning 
1. Discuss pricing objectives used by businesses when setting prices. 

Advertising - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

2. Compare and contrast pricing strategies (price skimming, penetration pricing, 
competition pricing, supply and demand pricing). 

U. Channels of Distribution/Supply Chain Management 
1. Explain the functions of the channel of distribution and channel members 

(producers, retailers, wholesalers, transportation companies, warehouses, agents 
and brokers, consumers). 

2. Identify various distribution channel options (direct, indirect, multiple, 
nontraditional). 

3. Describe the processes involved in supply chain management (purchasing, 
processing orders, warehousing and shipping, managing supply chain risks). 

4. Identify factors that can influence supply chain decisions (international markets, 
outsourcing, digital distribution, eco-friendly practices). 

5. Define logistics and explain its role in distribution. 
6. Explain the importance of product storage, handling, and packaging in the 

distribution process. 
V. Types of Promotion 

1. Describe types of promotion (endorsements, word-of-mouth promotion, direct 
marketing). 

2. Explain the purpose and components of visual merchandising. 
W. Marketing Research of Advertising 

1. Explain the marketing research process (identify/define the problem, develop the 
research design, determine the method for collecting data, collect the data, 
analyze the data, report/present the data). 

2. Describe the benefits and limitations of marketing research. 
3. Define primary and secondary market research. 

X. Developing an Effective Sales Promotion Strategy 
1. Identify consumer sales promotions (coupons, price deals, rebates, premiums, 

loyalty marketing program sampling, contests, sweepstakes, point-of-purchase 
displays). 

2. Identify trade sales promotions (push money, deal loader, trade allowance). 
Y. Consumer-Oriented Advertising and Sales Promotion 

1. Explain the components of the communication process (sender, encoding the 
message, communication channel, receiver, decoding the message, noise, 
feedback). 

2. Explain the purposes of advertising and promotional communication. 
3. Explain the purpose of consumer-oriented sales promotions. 
4. Describe how direct marketing is used to reach consumers. 

Z. Types of Communication 
1. Explain why interpersonal communication is an important part of advertising and 

promotion. 
2. Describe other types of communication used by businesses. 

AA. Effective Advertising and Promotional Messages 
1. Explain the four C’s (comprehension, connection, credibility, contagiousness) of 

communication. 
2. Describe how to create effective advertising messages. 

BB. Legal and Ethical Issues Affective Advertising 
1. Explain the need for government regulation of advertising and the role of the 

Federal Trade Commission. 

Advertising - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Advertising 

2. Describe the purpose of other government regulatory agencies. 
CC. Ethics in Advertising 

1. Identify the ethical aspects of advertising. 
2. Explain how the FTC assures truth in advertising. 

DD. Advertising in a Multicultural Market (Global Vision) 
1. Recognize factors that have an impact on global marketing. 
2. Describe global marketing challenges facing marketers. 

EE. Diversity and Advertising 
1. Describe the impact of diversity on advertising. 
2. Identify characteristics of growing ethnic markets. 
3. Explain advertising needs for different parts of the world. 
4. Explain the impact of multiculturalism and multi-generation on advertising 

activities. 
FF. History of Advertising 

1. Explain how advertising has changes to meet the needs of changing times. 
2. Describe inventions that have impacted advertising. 

GG. Influences on Advertising 
1. Describe environmental influences on advertising. 
2. Describe consumer influences on advertising. 

HH. The Advertising Industry and Careers 
1. Explain how the advertising industry works. 
2. Describe careers in the advertising industry. 
3. Determine characteristics necessary for a successful career in advertising. 
4. Identify the skill set needed for a successful advertising career. 

II. The Internet and Advertising 
1. Describe various types of internet advertising (e-mail, banner and pop-up 

advertising, search engine advertising, website advertising, blogs, social media 
advertising, Twitter). 

2. Explain what factors businesses should consider when using internet advertising 
(hits, page views, visits, unique visitors). 

JJ. Self-Regulation 
1. Explain the concept of self-regulation and identify how it is applied in the 

advertising industry. 
2. Recognize how consumers can regulate business practices. 

KK. Cross-Cultural Communication 
1. Recognize how verbal and nonverbal communication differ in other cultures. 
2. Explain the importance of the translation process in global marketing. 

Advertising - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.