2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Agribusiness 

 
Agribusiness allows members to demonstrate their understanding of business principles as 
they apply to the agriculture industry through an objective test. This event covers topics such 
as agricultural marketing, economics, finance, and supply chain management, encouraging 
members to explore careers in agribusiness. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Agriculture 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Economics Test Composition
• Finance and accounting 

30
• Health, safety, and environmental 20

management 10
• Management analysis and decision 0

making 
• Marketing 
• Terminology and trends 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Agribusiness - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Agribusiness 

National 
 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Agribusiness - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Agribusiness 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Agribusiness - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Agribusiness 

Sample Preparation Resources 
• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 

the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Agribusiness - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Agribusiness 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Health, Safety, and Environmental Management 

1. Use tools, equipment, machinery, and technology appropriate to work within 
areas related to Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources (AFNR). 

2. Define what level of possible contamination or injury is considered a risk in 
order to set safety priorities. 

3. Identify insurance needs used in agricultural business, including property, 
health, life, crop and liability (personal and environmental). 

4. Develop response plans to handle emergencies. 
5. Identify hazards and acquire first aid skills to promote environmental safety. 
6. Examine required regulations to maintain/improve safety, health, and 

environmental management systems and sustainable business practices. 
7. Enact procedures that demonstrate the importance of safety, health, and 

environmental responsibilities in the workplace. 
8. Demonstrate methods to correct common hazards. 
9. Demonstrate application of personal and group health and safety practices. 

B. Management Analysis and Decision Making 
1. Identify and compare the four types of agricultural business organizations: sole 

proprietorship, partnership, cooperative, and corporation. 
2. Explain the environmental considerations of decision making in AFNR 

management. 
3. Predict the positive and negative impact of AFNR activities. 
4. Analyze the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats to an AFNR 

enterprise or business unit. 
5. Develop an operation and/or production plan to provide required levels of 

product or service. 
6. Develop business goals and strategies that capitalize on opportunities in an 

AFNR market. 
7. Identify and observe ethical standards in planning and operating AFNR 

businesses. 
C. Marketing 

1. Use industry-accepted marketing principles to accomplish AFNR business 
objectives. 

2. Communicate the importance of AFNR to general public. 
3. Evaluate alternative marketing strategies, such as value-adding, branding, and 

niche marketings, and propose and implement appropriate modifications to 
achieve AFNR business goals. 

4. Perform a marketing analysis, including evaluation of the competitors, 
customers, international and domestic policy environment, regulations and 
rules, standards and AFNR business resources. 

5. Develop and implement marketing strategies with agricultural commodities, 
products, and services. 

D. Economics 
1. Utilize economics principles to establish and manage and AFNR enterprise.  
2. Describe the role of global supply and demand on AFNR. 
3. State the economic output of AFNR-related industries in the United States. 

Agribusiness - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Agribusiness 

4. Evaluate the impact of AFNR activities in your local community. 
5. Apply economic principles to marketing. 
6. Differentiate types of ownership and outline the structure of AFNR businesses 

in a capitalistic economic system. 
7. Classify the characteristics of successful entrepreneurs in AFNR businesses. 

E. Finance and Accounting 
1. Manage cash budgets, credit budgets, and credit for an AFNR business using 

generally accepted accounting principles. 
2. Budget resources (e.g., capital, human, financial, time). 
3. Manage assets for optimum utilization. 
4. Manage risk of liabilities. 
5. Prepare and interpret financial statements (e.g., balance sheet, profit/loss 

statement, cash flow statement). 
6. Prepare tax forms (e.g., W-4, I9, depreciation, 1099, Workers Compensation). 
7. Determine cost of doing business. 
8. Compare and examine advantages and disadvantages of banking procedures 

(e.g., bank reconciliation). 
9. Analyze investment options (e.g., buy, lease, finance, risk). 
10. Calculate costs of carrying inventory. 
11. Use record keeping to accomplish AFNR business objectives, manage budgets, 

and comply with laws and regulations. 
12. Describe how to manage inventory and determine selling price. 
13. Explain the importance of return on investment for an agribusiness enterprise. 

F. Terminology and Trends 
1. Examine economic, social, and technological changes to spotlight their impact 

on AFNR organizations and the industry. 
2. Analyze the interaction among ANFR systems in the production, processing, 

and management of food, fiber, fuel, and sustainable use of natural resources. 
3. Explain foundational cycles and systems of AFNR (plant and animal life cycles, 

nutrient and water cycles, and animal production). 
4. Explain how changes in one system in AFNR can benefit and cost components 

of other systems (e.g., using less irrigation water and the impact on soil 
systems, economic systems, and watersheds). 

5. Explain how regulations and major laws impact management of AFNR activities. 
6. Describe current issues impacting AFNR. 
7. Explain the impact of sustainability on AFNR activities and practices. 
8. Envision emerging technology and globalization to project its influence on 

widespread markets. 

Agribusiness - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.