2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

 
Banking & Financial Systems challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of how 
financial institutions function and their impact on both business and personal finance. This 
event includes an objective test and a role play scenario, allowing members to apply knowledge 
in areas such as banking services, regulatory compliance, and financial decision-making. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Financial Services 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Concepts and practices 
• Basic terminology Test Composition
• Government regulation of financial 35

30
services 25

• Impact of technology on financial 20
15

services 10
• Types/differences of various 5

0
institutions 

• Ethics 
• Careers in financial services 
• Taxation 

 
Test questions and role plays are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for 
this event. Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 1 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

 

National 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 2 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

 
 

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 3 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

 
Role Play Prompt  

• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a banking and financial systems–
related scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. 
This copy must be shared among team members and may only be accessed within 
the designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 4 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 5 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Concepts and Practices 

1. Demonstrate effective techniques to gather, communicate, and manage client 
information. 

2. Create and/or complete documents to process information. 
3. Utilize available techniques to effectively serve customers. 
4. Use account knowledge to perform bookkeeping/accounting functions 

(including payroll) and execute financial transactions. 
5. Analyze financial activities and compile business transaction data to report 

financial information – balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement. 
6. Understand the importance of audits and regulations. 
7. Perform banking operations such as opening and closing teller stations, 

processing loans, processing deposits and withdrawals, etc. 
8. Understand the Federal Reserve System. 
9. Understand the role of FDIC. 
10. Describe the check clearing system. 
11. Possess general knowledge of checking, savings, loans, certificates of deposit, 

investments, IRAs, customer services, trust services, ATMs, and credit/debit 
cards. 

12. Implement loan procedures from beginning to closure. 
13. Maintain records and reports to manage investments, cash, loans, and other 

banking procedures. 
14. Handle customer inquiries and situations such as interpreting business 

policies. 
15. Identify consumer protection provisions of appropriate agencies. 
16. Implement safe and secure environment controls to enhance productivity and 

minimize loss. 
17. Practice safety and security procedures such as identifying valid currency, 

recognizing potential risk customers, and securing cash. 
B. Basic Terminology  

1. Explain the purposes and components of budgets. 
2. Define general accounting terms. 
3. Understand banking terms such as check register, savings account, interest, 

deposits, ATM, bank reconciliation, and withdrawals. 
4. Identify the advantages and disadvantages of credit and other credit-related 

terms such as credit ratings, credit reports, and secured and unsecured credit. 
5. Define bankruptcy – types and major causes. 
6. Define mandatory and voluntary pay deductions. 
7. Define tax terms such as “exemptions”, “dependents”, and “taxable and 

nontaxable income”. 
8. List examples of short- and long-term financial goals. 
9. Explain the similarities and differences between leasing and buying and renting 

versus purchasing. 
10. Compare the terms and rates of mortgages, leases, investments, and other 

financial documents such as insurance. 
11. Compare stocks, bonds, and commodities. 

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 6 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

12. Define investment terms such as “risk management” and “rate of return”. 
13. Identify types of retirement plans. 
14. Use insurance terminology to explain insurance risks. 
15. Compare term and whole-life insurance and annuities. 
16. Identify major characteristics of the basic types of life, health, and disability 

insurance. 
C. Government Regulation of Financial Services 

1. Interpret laws and regulations to determine the role of government in the 
financial industry. 

2. Interpret world events to determine the impact of international affairs on the 
financial industry. 

3. Research the regulatory requirements of financial and investment planning and 
security sales to ensure compliance with codes. 

4. Implement internal and external audit procedures to reflect compliance with 
regulations. 

5. Research the regulatory insurance requirement to ensure compliance. 
6. Identify, apply, and keep current with laws and regulations that affect financial 

and accounting practices. 
7. Apply federal, state, and local laws, and rules and regulations to guide storage 

and retention of financial records.  
D. Impact of Technology on Financial Services 

1. Identify various financial management software packages. 
2. Use databases and other computer management tools to manage office 

records and general information. 
3. Produce documents integrating current word processing, database, and 

spreadsheet files. 
4. Create worksheets using spreadsheet commands, functions, and formulas. 
5. Study component operation to prevent, diagnose, and solve computer 

operations problems. 
6. Assist customers/clients in maintaining online services. 

E. Ethics 
1. Identify ethical character traits (honesty, integrity, compassion, respect, 

responsibility, citizenship, justice) and practice professional conduct and good 
ethical behavior. 

2. Determine ethics and social responsibilities and analyze the effects of 
unethical practices on business and on consumers. 

3. Maintain confidentiality and sensitivity of company information. 
4. Exhibit nondiscriminatory behavior. 
5. Define common, unfair, and deceptive practices such as bait and switch, 

identity theft, and fraudulent misrepresentation.  
F. Types and Differences of Institutions 

1. Identify the various types of financial institutions. 
2. Describe the types of services offered by each type of financial institution. 
3. Compare the differences in the various types of financial institutions. 
4. Describe the role of government in the various types of financial institutions. 
5. Identify the various sources and procedures for institutions that offer credit. 

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 7 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 

G. Careers in Financial Services 
1. Determine roles and functions of individuals to perform professional financial 

service careers. 
2. Identify traditional and nontraditional finance-related careers including 

requirements, salary range, and working conditions. 
3. Develop employability skills and meet position requirements to obtain a career 

in finance. 
4. Plan appropriate education activities to achieve licensing and certification 

requirements. 
5. Utilize resources that contribute to professional development (trade 

journals/periodicals, professional trade organizations, industry sponsored 
training opportunities, etc.) in financial careers. 

H. Taxation 
1. Reference the latest tax code to guide tax return preparation and actions. 
2. Use tax preparation procedures to determine tax liability and apply tax code 

professionally and complete basic tax reporting forms. 
3. Review income, deductions, and credits to determine current financial 

position. 
4. Examine state and federal laws to identify tax credits. 
5. Analyze tax structures and consequences to assist in business decision making. 

 
 
  

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 8 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Banking & Financial Systems 
Banking & Financial Systems Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Demonstrated Below Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Points 
Expectations Earned 

No description or role Describes and rates expertise 
Demonstrates play synopsis provides role play Describes and provides Demonst

understanding of the role provided; no synopsis OR defines role play synopsis AND of role play synopsis 
AND definition of the 

play and defines  
problems defined the problem(s) defines the problem(s) problem(s) 

problem(s) to be solved 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

given but At least two alternatives Multiple alternatives 
Identifies alternatives and No alternatives Alternative(s) le pros 

the pro(s) and con(s) of identified pro(s) and/or con(s) given, and pro(s) and given and multip
are not analyzed con(s) are analyzed and cons analyzed for  

each each 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Feasible solution and 
Solution provided, but Logical solution and implementation plan 

Identifies logical solution No solution identified implementation plan implementation plan developed, and 
and aspects of not developed provided and developed necessary resources  

implementation identified 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

 
Demonstrates knowledge 
and understanding of the 
event knowledge areas:  

 
No knowledge areas One or two knowledge 

Concepts and re Three knowledge areas Four or more knowledge 
practices/basic demonstrated areas a

demonstrated are demonstrated areas are demonstrated 
terminology/ government 

regulations/ financial 
services/ technology / types 

of institutions/ ethics/ 
financial careers/ taxation 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

tation flowed in a 
Statements are well- Competitor(s) did not Competitor(s) were Presen

Presentation flowed in logical sequence; 
appear prepared prepared, but flow was 

organized and clearly not logical logical sequence statements were well  
stated organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
Consistently displays 

confidence, poised body Did not demonstrate the listed skills listed skills (confidence, Demonstrated all skills, 
any of the listed skills (confidence, body body language, eye enhancing the overall 

language, engaging eye language, eye contact, contact, or voice presentation  
contact, and effective or voice projection) projection) 

voice projection. 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Interacted with the  
Demonstrates the ability Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process of 

to effectively answer questions answer questions questions completely answering 
questions questions 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

 
Presentation Total (100 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Banking & Financial Systems - Page 9 of 9 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.