2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

 
Business Management challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of core 
management principles through an objective test and a role play scenario. Members apply their 
knowledge to real-world business situations involving planning, organizing, leading, and 
decision-making within an organizational setting. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism 

 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Business Environment  
• Management Types  Test Composition
• Business Finance  35
• Operations  30

25
• Strategic Management  20

 15
Test questions and role plays are based 10

5
on the knowledge statements and 0

objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the 
study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
 
  

Business Management - Page 1 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play 
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 

Business Management - Page 2 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

 
 

Business Management - Page 3 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

 
Role Play Prompt  

• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a management–related scenario 
or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy must be 
shared among team members and may only be accessed within the designated 
preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 

Business Management - Page 4 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Business Management - Page 5 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
This study guide outlines the skills and knowledge assessed for this event. Objectives followed 
by a two-letter, three-digit code in parentheses are aligned to the National Business 
Administration Standards from MBA Research and Curriculum Center. Some objectives 
reference MBA Research’s Learning Activity Packages (LAPs), which are instructional resources 
with readings, activities, and assessments available exclusively to teacher advisers. For more 
information, visit MBAResearch.org/FBLA.  
 
Important Notice Regarding Test Preparation 
MBA Research materials are not required to study for or prepare for FBLA competitive event 
tests. MBA Research provides curriculum and instructional resources directly to teachers and 
does not administer or manage individual student testing or competition participation. 
 
Note for members and parents: All questions related to tests, study materials, scores, or 
competition guidelines should be directed to the local FBLA adviser. Only teacher advisers 
should contact MBA Research directly. 
 
Business Environment (15 test items) 

1. Explain the role of business in society (EC:070, LAP-EC-070) (CS) 
2. Describe types of business activities (EC:071, LAP-EC-071) (CS) 
3. Describe types of business models (EC:138) (SP) 
4. Discuss the global environment in which businesses operate (EC:104) (SP) 
5. Describe legal issues affecting businesses (BL:001) (SP) 
6. Explain the organizational design of businesses (EC:103) (SP) 

 
Management Types (25 test items) 

1. Discuss the nature of human resources management (HR:410, LAP-HR-410) (CS) 
2. Explain the nature of project management (OP:158, LAP-OP-158) (SP) 
3. Discuss the nature of information management (NF:110, LAP-NF-110) (CS) 
4. Discuss the nature of customer relationship management (CR:016, LAP-CR-016) (SP) 
5. Discuss the nature of supply chain management (OP:303, LAP-OP-303) (SP) 
6. Explain the nature of change management (SM:095) (SP) 
7. Explain the nature of knowledge management (KM:001, LAP-KM-001) (SP) 
8. Explain the nature of quality management (QM:001, LAP-QM-001) (SP) 
9. Explain the nature of risk management (SM:075, LAP-SM-075) (SP) 

 
Business Finance (15 test items) 

1. Explain the nature of balance sheets (FI:093, LAP-FI-093) (SP) 
2. Describe the nature of income statements (FI:094, LAP-FI-094) (SP) 
3. Describe the nature of budgets (FI:106, LAP-FI-106) (SP) 
4. Describe the nature of cash flow statements (FI:091, LAP-FI-091) (SP) 
5. Develop company’s/department’s budget (FI:099, LAP-FI-099) (MN) 
6. Interpret financial statements (FI:102) (MN) 

 
Operations (15 test items) 

1. Explain the nature of operations (OP:189, LAP-OP-189) (CS) 
2. Discuss the nature of business analysis (OP:327) (SP) 
3. Discuss business process thinking and its impact (OP:474) (SP) 
4. Explain the concept of supply chain (OP:443, LAP-OP-443) (CS) 

Business Management - Page 6 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 

5. Explain the impact of supply chains on business performance (OP:477, LAP-OP-477) 
(SP) 

 
Strategic Management (30 test items) 

1. Explain the concept of management (SM:001, LAP-SM-001) (CS) 
2. Explain factors that affect management (SM:100) (SP) 
3. Discuss the nature of managerial planning (SM:063) (SP) 
4. Explain managerial considerations in organizing (SM:064, LAP-SM-064) (SP) 
5. Describe managerial considerations in staffing (SM:065, LAP-SM-065) (SP) 
6. Discuss managerial considerations in directing (SM:066, LAP-SM-066) (SP) 
7. Describe the nature of managerial control (control process, types of control, what is 

controlled) (SM:004, LAP-SM-004) (SP) 
8. Explain the nature of managerial ethics (SM:002, LAP-SM-002) (MN) 
9. Explain the nature of business plans (SM:007, LAP-SM-007) (MN) 
10. Select and apply metrics for measuring organizational success (SM:074) (MN) 

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

MBA Research and Curriculum Center. National Business Administration Standards. 
https://www.mbaresearch.org/local-educators/teaching-resources/standards/  

Asana. How to implement a strategic management process. https://asana.com/resources/strategic-
management-stages  

Business.com. 8 branches of business management. https://www.business.com/articles/8-branches-
of-business-management/  

ProofHub. What is business management? A comprehensive guide. 
https://www.proofhub.com/articles/business-management  

 

  

Business Management - Page 7 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Business Management 
Business Management Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not 
Demonstrated Below Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Expectations Points 

Earned 
No description or Describes and Describes and Demonstrates expertise 

Demonstrates role play synopsis provides role play provides role play of role play synopsis AND 
understanding of the role provided; no synopsis OR defines synopsis AND defines definition of the 

play and defines  
problems defined the problem(s) the problem(s) problem(s) 

problem(s) to be solved 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

At least two Multiple alternatives 
Identifies alternatives and No alternatives Alternative(s) given but alternatives given, and given and multiple pros 

pro(s) and con(s) of identified pro(s) and/or con(s) 
the are not analyzed pro(s) and con(s) are and cons analyzed for  

each analyzed each 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Feasible solution and 
olution provided, but Logical solution and 

Identifies logical solution No solution S entation plan implementation plan 
developed, and 

and aspects of identified implementation plan implem
not developed provided and necessary resources  

implementation developed identified 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
 

Demonstrates knowledge 
and understanding of the 
event knowledge areas: 

 No knowledge areas One or two knowledge Three knowledge areas Four or more knowledge 
Business Environment / demonstrated areas are 

Management Types / demonstrated are demonstrated areas are demonstrated 
Business Finance / 

Operations / Strategic 
Management 

 
0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

Presentation Delivery 

Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed in a 
Statements are well- not appear prepared, but flow was Presentation flowed in logical sequence; 
organized and clearly prepared not logical logical sequence statements were well  

stated organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Demonstrated 1-2 of Demonstrated 3 of the 
Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed skills listed skills Demonstrated all skills, 

confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body (confidence, body enhancing the overall 
language, engaging eye skills language, eye contact, language, eye contact, presentation  
contact, and effective or voice projection) or voice projection) 

voice projection. 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Interacted with the  
Demonstrates the ability Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process of 

to effectively answer questions answer questions questions completely answering 
questions questions 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  

 
Presentation Total (100 points)  

Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 

Business Management - Page 8 of 8 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.