2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Cybersecurity 

 
Cybersecurity challenges members to demonstrate their knowledge of protecting systems and 
data from digital threats such as viruses, malware, phishing, and spyware. Through an objective 
test, members explore foundational cybersecurity principles, tools, and best practices used to 
defend against cyberattacks. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Digital Technology 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, Critical 

Thinking, Professionalism, Technology 
 
Knowledge Areas 
 

• Security Fundamentals  
• Cyber Threats and Test Composition

Vulnerabilities  25
• Security and Design  
• Network and Data Security  20

• Security Operations and 15
Management  

• Security Protocols and 10

Threat Mitigation 5
 
Test questions are based on the 0

knowledge areas and objectives 
outlined for this event. Detailed 
objectives can be found in the 
study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Cybersecurity - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Cybersecurity 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Cybersecurity - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Cybersecurity 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 

Cybersecurity - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Cybersecurity 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Cybersecurity - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Cybersecurity 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
 
Security Fundamentals (15 test items) 

1. Describe Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability 
2. Describe measures for establishing digital trust (e.g., identity proofing, non-

repudiation, attestation) 
3. Explain the concepts of authentication, authorization, and accounting 
4. Provide examples of Zero Trust 
5. Describe examples of deception and disruption technology for defending against 

attackers (e.g., honeypots, honeynets, honeyfiles) 
6. Explain how binary, hexadecimal, and decimal are used in cryptography 
7. Explain the purpose of least privilege principles 

 
Cyber Threats and Vulnerabilities (20 test items) 

1. Describe web and software sources of security vulnerabilities (e.g., injections, 
overflows, jailbreaking, race conditions) 

2. Discuss attributes of threat actors and their goals (e.g., internal and external threats, 
financial gain, espionage, data theft) 

3. Describe types of viruses 
4. Discuss types of security vulnerabilities (e.g., backdoors, zero-days, unpatched 

software) 
5. Discuss social engineering scams and attacks (e.g., phishing, phone scams, email 

scams) 
6. Describe the purpose, methods, and mechanics of a DDoS attack 
7. Describe the characteristics of types of malware (e.g., viruses, Trojans, worm, logic 

bombs) 
8. Describe cryptographic attacks (e.g., downgrades, collisions, birthday attacks) 
9. Discuss vulnerabilities of wireless networks 

 
Security and Design (20 test items) 

1. Explain how using cloud infrastructure affects system security 
2. Discuss the security implications of microservice architecture (e.g., more attack 

surfaces, authentication, increased complexity) 
3. Differentiate between logical and physical segmentation 
4. Explain how containerization and virtualization can increase security 
5. Describe security risks and challenges associated with the Internet of Things 
6. Describe the concepts of backups, RAID, and UPS 
7. Identify examples of the CIA triad in network design (e.g., UPS, encryption, data 

integrity) 
8. Explain the role of testing in building secure cyber architecture 

 
Network and Data Security (15 test items) 

1. Describe the purpose of cryptography 
2. Differentiate between public and private key cryptography 
3. Discuss shift ciphers, Caesar ciphers, and substitution ciphers 
4. Describe the three states of data 
5. Describe the importance and use of access control models (e.g., MAC, DAC, RBAC) 
6. Discuss authentication and authorization of network resources (e.g., multifactor, 

certificates, tokens) 

Cybersecurity - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Cybersecurity 

7. Describe how blockchains and hashing can be used for authentication and data 
integrity 

 
Security Operations and Management (10 test items) 

1. Describe common security policies (e.g., acceptable use, information security, 
business continuity, disaster recovery) 

2. Discuss elements of disaster prevention and recovery plans 
3. Describe types of firewalls (e.g., network-based, NGFW, WAF) 
4. Explain the use of firewall access lists and rules to increase security 
5. Describe best practices for company messaging, email, and data security 
6. Describe the impact of change management on security  

 
Security Protocols and Threat Mitigation (20 test items) 

1. Provide examples of secure protocols (e.g., SSH, HTTPS, TLS, WPA2) 
2. Describe the purpose of intrusion prevention and detection systems 
3. Describe policies and practices to prevent viruses, phishing and email scams 
4. Explain methods of obfuscation (e.g., tokenization, data masking, steganography) 
5. Describe how strong passwords increase security 
6. Describe the purpose of digital certificates and Certificate Authorities (CAs) 
7. Describe the importance of patches, updates, and version control for security 
8. Explain the use of pen testing for increasing security 

 

References for Knowledge Areas & Objectives 

Adelaide University. Cyber security basics: Exploring the fundamentals of cyber security. 
https://online.adelaide.edu.au/blog/cyber-security-fundamentals 

Association for Computing Machinery. Cybersecurity Curricula 2017. 
https://cybered.hosting.acm.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/newcover_csec2017.pdf 

Codecademy. Introduction to cybersecurity. https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-
cybersecurity  

CompTIA. Security+ Certification Exam Objectives. 
https://assets.ctfassets.net/82ripq7fjls2/6TYWUym0Nudqa8nGEnegjG/0f9b974d3b1837fe85a
b8e6553f4d623/CompTIA-Security-Plus-SY0-701-Exam-Objectives.pdf  

Cybersecurity Guide. Mastering the basics: A comprehensive guide to cybersecurity 101 for the digital 
age. https://cybersecurityguide.org/resources/cybersecurity-101/ 

The Academic Initiative of the Cyber Innovation Center. K-12 Cybersecurity Learning Standards. 
https://cyber.org/sites/default/files/2021-10/K-
12%20Cybersecurity%20Learning%20Standards_1.0.pdf  

 

Cybersecurity - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.