2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

 
Healthcare Administration challenges members to demonstrate their knowledge of medical 
terminology, office procedures, and administrative functions within a healthcare setting. 
Through an objective test, members explore the skills and knowledge essential to supporting 
efficient and effective healthcare operations. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Healthcare & Human Services 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

 
• Managing Office Procedures 
• Medical Terminology Test Composition
• Legal & Ethical Issues in 12

Healthcare 10
8

• Communication Skills 6
4

• Managing Financial Functions 2
• Health Insurance 0

• Records Management 
• Infection Control 
• Medical History 
• Technology 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Healthcare Administration - Page 1 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 

Healthcare Administration - Page 2 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• The number of competitors will determine the number of winners. The maximum 
number of winners for each competitive event is 10. 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 
 
 

Healthcare Administration - Page 3 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Healthcare Administration - Page 4 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Managing Office Procedures 

1. Determine commonly used documents that are composed in a medical office. 
2. List procedures to maintain healthcare provider’s schedule. 
3. Demonstrate procedures to schedule patient appointments. 
4. Identify procedures to register patients. 
5. Identify the parts of a patient chart. 
6. State rules to maintain patient confidentiality according to Health Insurance 

Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) regulations. 
7. Identify procedures to sort and process mail. 
8. Identify procedures for handling emergencies in medical offices. 
9. Prepare treatment rooms and exam tables. 
10. Determine procedures to clean instruments, equipment, and work areas. 
11. Determine maintenance requirements for supplies and equipment. 
12. Identify procedures to maintain, stock, and inventory of supplies and 

equipment.  
13. Identify unsafe conditions. 
14. Coordinate meetings, events, and activities. 
15. Select effective time management techniques.  
16. Identify resources needed to complete a job assignment. 

B. Medical Terminology 
1. Define medical root words.  
2. Define what specific suffixes mean in a medical terminology context. 
3. Define what specific prefixes mean in a medical terminology context. 
4. Define common medical abbreviations. 
5. Communicate information using medical terms. 
6. Differentiate between various medical specialties. 
7. Use anatomical terminology to describe body parts and functions. 

C. Legal & Ethical Issues in Healthcare  
1. State healthcare facility policies and procedures. 
2. Identify national, state and local standards for workplace safety. 
3. Determine laws governing healthcare professionals. 
4. State the purpose of a patient’s “Bill of Rights”. 
5. Explain laws and standards associated with employment and labor. 
6. Explain the purpose of Material Data Safety Sheets (MSDS) used in a healthcare 

setting. 
7. Explain laws associated with harassment. 
8. Determine licensure and certification needed by healthcare professionals. 
9. Identify standards of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 

(HIPAA). 
10. Maintain patient confidentiality. 
11. Identify threats to patient confidentiality. 
12. Define expressed, implied and informed consent. 
13. Identify practices and behaviors that result in malpractice, liability, and/or 

negligence. 
14. Identify ethical issues related to healthcare. 

Healthcare Administration - Page 5 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

15. Identify appropriate work habits and ethics. 
D. Communication Skills 

1. Describe the various forms of communication common to healthcare. 
2. Discuss the role of letters, memos, and reports in the healthcare business. 
3. Manage telephone communications and use appropriate techniques to gather 

and record information. 
4. Describe and analyze the impact of cultural diversity on the communication 

process. 
5. Employ appropriate communication strategies for dealing with dissatisfied 

customers (e.g., face-to-face discussions, electronic correspondence and 
writing). 

6. Identify techniques to respond to the emotional needs of patients and families 
(e.g., supportive listening). 

7. Assist practitioner in management of communication activities. 
8. Identify appropriate responses to difficult patient behavior. 
9. List purposeful activities for cognitive skills. 
10. Analyze the need for effective communication with members of 

interdisciplinary teams. 
E. Managing Financial Functions 

1. Identify procedures for payment on accounts. 
2. Identify procedures for and complete a balance sheet. 
3. List procedures to bill patient. 
4. Define procedures for processing past-due accounts. 
5. Identify procedures for and make a bank deposit. 
6. Identify procedures to open a new patient account. 
7. Identify procedures for reconciling a bank statement. 
8. Process an accounts payable invoice. 

 
9. Identify procedures to maintain a petty cash fund. 
10. Identify common financial forms used in healthcare.  

F. Health Insurance 
1. List types of health insurance coverage (HMO, PPO, Medicare, etc.) 
2. Identify procedures for obtaining insurance authorization for patient treatment 

or testing. 
3. Identify commonly used insurance forms and statements. 
4. List commonly used International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) codes for 

billing purposes and insurance claims. 
5. Identify procedures for processing referrals. 
6. Prepare a billing statement. 
7. Interpret an explanation of benefits (EOB’s) form. 
8. Identify procedures for submitting insurance claims. 

G. Records Management 
1. Identify components of the medical record. 
2. Determine procedures to code medical records. 
3. Identify procedures for filing medical records manually or electronically. 
4. Identify the phases of the record life cycle. 

Healthcare Administration - Page 6 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Healthcare Administration 

5. List medical record charge-out procedures. 
6. Manage electronic file storage through the use of file and disk management 

techniques. 
H. Infection Control 

1. List procedures for aseptic hand washing. 
2. Identify infection control techniques to prevent transmission of infectious 

disease. 
3. Describe OSHA and CEC standards for infection control. 
4. Identify procedures to dispose of bio-hazardous materials. 
5. Detail proper technique for handling clean and soiled linens and clothing. 
6. Identify standard precautions used in healthcare (i.e., gown, mask, gloves, cap, 

and protective eyewear.) 
7. Detail procedures to clean, sterilize, and prepare instruments and supplies. 
8. List factors that promote and inhibit growth of microorganisms. 
9. Identify ways the body protects against microorganisms and infection. 

I. Medical History 
1. Identify common elements of a patient’s medical history. 
2. List procedures to record and report vital signs. 
3. Interpret readings on various metering devices. 
4. List patient responses during testing or treatment. 
5. Record/file patient’s data or lab test results manually and electronically. 
6. Answer inquiries concerning patients from medical staff using correct medical 

terminology. 
7. Carry out plan of care/orders. 
8. Identify charting techniques. 
9. Identify and use the correct chart forms. 

J. Technology  
1. Define basic computer terminology. 
2. Identify software and its common applications to the healthcare industry. 
3. Explain the purpose, operation, and care of hardware components. 
4. Identify tools, diagnostic procedures and troubleshooting techniques for 

components and operating systems for personal computers, laptops and 
portable devices. 

5. Apply basic commands and navigate the operating systems. 
6. Input data and commands using peripherals (e.g., keyboard, touchscreen, 

scanner, and voice recognition.) 
7. Identify key words used to search and navigate the internet using a search 

engine. 
8. Identify the different parts of a browser window (pull-down menus, toolbar, 

address box, status bar, close button, maximize and minimize buttons and title 
bar). 

9. Analyze emerging technologies used by the healthcare industry. 
10. Identify tools and diagnostic procedures to troubleshoot printers and 

scanners. 
11. Identify and use appropriate resources to obtain assistance (e.g., help menu, 

manuals, websites). 

Healthcare Administration - Page 7 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.