2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

 
International Business gives members the opportunity to explore the dynamic global economy 
and understand how businesses operate across borders. Through an objective test and a role 
play scenario, members apply their knowledge of international trade, cultural awareness, global 
marketing, and economic systems. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School 
Event Type Team of 1, 2 or 3 members 
Event Category Role Play 
Event Elements Objective Test and Interactive Role Play 

 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism, Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Basic International Concepts 
• Ownership & Management  Test Composition
• Legal Issues 
• Communication 16

14
• Marketing 12

10
• Taxes & Government 8

Regulations 6
4

• Treaties & Trade Agreements 2
0

• Currency Exchange 
• Finance 
• Human Resource Management 
• Ethics 
• International Travel 
• Career Development 

 
Test questions and role plays are based on the knowledge statements and objectives outlined 
for this event. Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these 
guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 

International Business (High School) - Page 1 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

National 
 
Required Competition Items   

 Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides 
Objective Test • Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch 

• Fully powered device for online paper per competitor 
testing • Internet access 

• Conference-provided nametag • Test login information 
• Photo identification (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress provided at test 

Code check-in) 
Role Play • Conference-provided nametag • Two notecards per 

• Photo identification competitor  
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress • Pencil  

Code • Secret role play  
problem/scenario 

 
 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Team Composition: All members of a team must be from the same local chapter. 

International Business (High School) - Page 2 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 
(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. If judges have left the competitive event area, 
it is no longer possible to compete. Five penalty points will be assessed for late arrivals 
in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 
This event consists of two phases: an objective test and an interactive role play. 
 
Objective Test 
Each competitor will complete a 100-question multiple-choice objective test. 

Test Duration 
• Test Duration: 50 minutes 

Format 
• This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and completed on-

site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
Materials 

• Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
Electronic Devices 

• All electronic devices, including cell phones, smart watches, and similar 
technology, must be powered off prior to the start of the competition. 

Team Tests 
• If competing as a team, competitors must begin testing individually within a few 

minutes of one another. Each competitor’s score will be averaged to determine the 
team’s overall test score. 

Calculators 
• Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available within 

the testing platform. 
Question Review 

• Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for review prior to the 
finalization of results at the NLC. 

 
Interactive Role Play Details 
The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role play 
round. 

Timing Structure 
• Preparation Time: 20 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Presentation: 7 minutes (a one-minute warning will be provided) 
• Question & Answer (Q&A): None 

 
 

International Business (High School) - Page 3 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

 
Role Play Prompt  

• Competitors will be provided with a single copy of a global business–related 
scenario or problem at the beginning of their assigned preparation time. This copy 
must be shared among team members and may only be accessed within the 
designated preparation area. 

Notecard Use 
• Each competitor will receive two notecards for use during preparation and the 

presentation. Information may be written on both sides. Notecards will be 
collected after the role play. 

Materials  
• No technology, reference materials, visuals, or props may be used. 

Interaction with Judges 
• Judges may ask questions during the presentation as part of the interactive role 

play format. 
Audience 

• Role play presentations are closed to all conference attendees. 
Confidentiality 

• To maintain fairness, competitors must not discuss or share the role play prompt 
until the event concludes. 

 
Scoring 

• The team-averaged objective test score determines the top 15 teams advancing to role 
play round. 

• The role play round scores only will be used to determine winners. 
• Objective test scores will be used to break a tie. 
• All judging decisions are final. Results announced at the National Leadership 

Conference are considered official and will not be changed after the conclusion of the 
National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to 
their assigned presentation time. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 

International Business (High School) - Page 4 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Recording of Presentations 

• Unauthorized audio or video recording is strictly prohibited in all competitive events. 
• FBLA reserves the right to record presentations for educational, training, or archival 

purposes. Competitors should be aware that their presentations may be recorded by 
FBLA-authorized personnel. 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items and role plays can be found in CONNECT. These sample 
items showcase the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize 
competitors with the multiple-choice item options. 

  

International Business (High School) - Page 5 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A. Basic International Concepts   

1. Define international business and explain terms and concepts related to 
international business and marketing. 

2. Compare and contrast the types of economic systems. 
3. List characteristics that define the various levels of economic development of 

countries. 
4. Explain the impact international business has on consumers, business, and 

countries. 
5. Define terms such as inflation, gross domestic product (GDP), purchasing power 

parity (PPP), balance of trade, foreign debt, and cost of living. 
6. Discuss the role the U.S. has played in international trade throughout history. 
7. Describe the decision-making process, opportunity costs, and scarcity as they 

relate to international business situations. 
8. Identify major trading regions and nations within those regions. 
9. Discuss the effect of literacy level, technology, natural resource availability, and 

infrastructure on the level of a country’s economic development. 
10. Identify the impact of geography on international business, including factors such 

as climate; time zones; distance; topography; and social, economic, and natural 
resources. 

11. Describe how concepts (e.g., ethnocentrism, culture, social institutions, 
stereotyping, and cultural bias) affect conducting international business. 

12. Compare and contrast international and domestic business and marketing 
activities. 

13. Identify how economic issues (e.g., inflation, foreign debt, GD, PPP, interest rates, 
and cost of living) affect international business activities. 

14. Explain the relationship between international events and business activities. 
15. Evaluate how the political environment and geographic location of a given country 

impact international business and how business operates. 
16. Identify international trade partners and describe the trading patterns of 

companies based on region, state, and country. 
B. Ownership and Management   

1. Identify types of ownership of selected businesses involved in international trade. 
2. Analyze the importance of entrepreneurs in an international market. 
3. Describe different organizational structures that a company might use in the 

international environment. 
4. Identify how the managing functions (e.g., planning, organizing, influencing, and 

controlling) affect international operations and productions. 
5. Identify distinctive social and cultural factors that affect business activities (e.g., 

time, workday, workweek, schedules, and holidays) 
6. Determine appropriate business strategies for operating in foreign market 

situations such as pure competition, monopoly, and oligopoly. 
7. Identify risks and rewards related to doing business in a foreign market. 
8. Describe the advantages and disadvantages of expansion into international 

business activities for a given business. 
9. Identify how various economic systems influence what is produced, how it is 

produced, and for whom it is produced. 

International Business (High School) - Page 6 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

10. Explain how social, cultural, and political factors affect the new product 
development process. 

11. List factors that affect international business competition. 
12. Describe various opportunities for conducting international business (e.g. 

licensing, exporting, franchising, and joint ventures). 
13. Identify organizations, government agencies, and other resources that a small or 

medium-sized business might use to investigate international business 
opportunities. 

14. Describe the role and purpose of the International Organization for 
Standardization. 

15. Assess the impact of quality management standards, especially ISO 9000 and QS 
9000, on the international business community. 

C. Legal Issues    
1. Recognize the legal issues related to managing a business in the global 

environment. 
2. Describe the difference between the legal systems of various countries and the 

U.S.  (e.g., codes, statutes, and common law) 
3. Recognize legal differences in areas such as consumer protection, product 

guidelines, labor laws, contract formulation, liability, and taxation for various 
countries. 

4. Appraise the protection provided to businesses by the components of 
international law. 

5. Analyze the major legal aspects and ramifications of international relations with 
special emphasis on topics such as financial systems and reporting, licensing, 
judicial systems, and repatriation. 

6. Identify the levels of regulation applied intellectual properties (e.g., copyrights, 
trademarks, and patents) in different countries. 

7. Define methods for resolving legal differences (e.g. mediation, arbitration, and 
litigation) in different cultures. 

D. Communication (including culture and language)      
1. Describe information systems and communications for international business. 
2. Define terms such as culture, multiculturalism, stereotyping, and cultural bias and 

their effects on conducting business internationally. 
3. Compose effective business communications based on an understanding of the 

differences in tone, style, and format of other countries. 
4. Identify examples of nonverbal communications affecting international business 

relationships and negotiations. 
5. Discuss complications involved when speaking, writing, or interpreting a language 

incorrectly  (introductions, American jargon,). 
6. Identify distinctive social and cultural factors that affect business 

activities/etiquette in a multicultural environment (e.g. gender, time, schedules, 
holidays, gifts, and attire). 

7. Compare the business protocol of various countries  (e.g., involvement of 
subpopulations—women and minorities; gift giving) 

8. Describe how the process of negotiating may be affected by cultural differences. 
9. Describe the role and use of electronic communication tools (e.g., video and 

computer-conferencing, webcasts, podcasting, and blogging) in international 
business activities. 

International Business (High School) - Page 7 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

10. Analyze the effect of security measures and practices related to electronic 
business communication. 

E. Marketing 
1. Define international marketing and apply technical words that pertain to 

international marketing. 
2. Describe what a company must consider when marketing a product/service in 

other countries. 
3. Illustrate how social, cultural, technological, and geographic factors influence 

consumer buying behavior in different cultures. 
4. Describe how language, culture, media availability, and regulations affect 

international advertising and marketing. 
5. Describe how consumer behavior and foreign markets can affect the elements of 

the marketing mix. 
6. List the importance of marketing research and describe data collection methods 

appropriate for various international marketing research situations. 
7. Define the steps in the marketing research process—from defining a problem to 

communicating results. 
8. Identify promotion strategies that can be used to promote products 

internationally. 
9. Explain how product packaging is affected by culture and how it may need to be 

altered before the product is marketed in a new environment. 
10. Explain quality standards as they relate to product development and packaging. 
11. Describe how the product life cycle can be affected in an international business 

environment. 
12. Compare the pricing strategy for a product sold both domestically and 

internationally. 
13. Explain how currency exchange rates, economic conditions, and the international 

business environment affect prices charged in international markets. 
14. Identify differences in the roles of agents, wholesalers, retailers, freight 

forwarders, export companies, trading companies, and customs’ brokers. 
15. Contrast direct and indirect distribution channels for international marketing. 
16. Discuss the factors in determining the appropriate mode of transportation for 

international shipments (e.g., cost, time, size, and perishability). 
17. Describe shipping terms (e.g., FOB and CIF) and explain the purpose of shipping 

documents used for transporting products to other countries. 
18. Explain how political risks can disrupt selling and buying across borders. 
19. Design a marketing strategy for selling a product or a service in an international 

market. 
F. Taxes and Government Regulations         

1. Differentiate between types of governments. 
2. Debate the various strategies governments use to control international trade. 
3. Describe the role of federal and state agencies and other agencies and 

organizations that provide export information and assistance. 
4. Discuss the impact of inflation and tax structures on international business 

decisions. 
G. Treaties and Trade Agreements 

1. Describe the economic effects of foreign trade. 
2. Identify activities and risks associated with importing and exporting. 

International Business (High School) - Page 8 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

3. Discuss the benefits to countries for entering into trade agreements. 
4. Describe the basic structure of the U.S. Customs Service. 
5. Recognize the government’s role and assistance in international trade.    
6. Explain how historical events have contributed to the formation of strategic trade 

alliances. 
7. Discuss why governments impose trade barriers (e.g., quotas, tariffs, licensing 

requirements, and exchange rate controls) and offer trade incentives. 
8. Describe several international trade agreements and organizations (e.g., WTO GATT, 

EU, NAFTA, and MERCOSUR). 
9. Analyze the effects of a trade barrier on the company, product category, and 

economics involved in a specific transaction. 
10. Analyze a country’s balance of trade and the specific conditions that can improve 

its trading potential. 
11. Identify information and sources of financial assistance for facilitating the 

import/export process. 
12. Define procedures and documentation associated with foreign trade and the 

transportation of goods. 
13. Discuss how companies comply with U.S. customs regulations related to their 

product or service. 
H. Currency Exchange 

1. Identify factors that affect the value of currency and calculate foreign exchange 
rates of various currencies. 

2. Explain how currency exchange rates affect international trade and business 
transactions. 

3. Distinguish between currencies (e.g., floating versus fixed and convertible versus 
nonconvertible). 

4. Explain how fluctuating currency and interest rates affect international trade. 
I. Finance 

1. Define terms related to international finance. 
2. List sources of capital for international, transnational, multinational, and global 

companies. 
3. Explain how a business finances trade with a business in another country. 
4. Analyze the global impact of the stock and bond markets. 
5. Identify countertrade, offset, and noncash transactions in world trade. 
6. Describe the international monetary system, including the International Monetary 

Fund and the World Bank. 
7. Identify essential components of payment documents used in payment for 

international trade activities. 
8. Critically examine equity and debt capital and their use in international businesses. 
9. Compare the international financial institutions and markets. 
10. Identify the risks associated with international business activities (e.g., commercial, 

political, and foreign exchange) and discuss strategies to minimize this risk. 
11. Describe the impact of direct foreign investment on local economics. 

J. Human Resource Management 
1. Describe the different living and working conditions found in various countries. 
2. Assess how social and cultural factors influence the human resource functions 

(e.g., recruitment selection; employee development; evaluation; compensation, 
promotion, benefit, and incentives; and separation, termination, and transition). 

International Business (High School) - Page 9 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 

3. Identify how motivational techniques for workers may differ when used in different 
cultures. 

4. Assess the impact of various occupational health and safety standards on 
conducting international business. 

5. Analyze methods used to resolve management-labor conflicts in different 
cultures/countries. 

6. Explain the advantages and disadvantages to a company of having access to a global 
labor pool. 

K. Ethics 
1. Define ethics and social responsibility. 
2. Identify ethical character traits and values shared by various cultures (e.g., honesty, 

integrity, compassion, and justice.) 
3. Explain how a country’s culture, history, and politics can influence ethical 

decisions. 
4. Identify current and emerging ethical issues in the global business environment. 
5. Identify pressures that international firms may face when dealing with ethical 

business issues. 
6. Discuss potential consequences of unethical business dealings in various 

international settings. 
7. Analyze the effect of an international business organization’s actions on a host 

country, the company’s home country, owners, employees, consumers, and 
society. 

L. International Travel 
1. Describe the major types of agreements among countries that affect travel. 
2. Use technology and international travel resources to access information on 

international travel (e.g., travel restrictions and health requirements, 
transportation, travel documents, etc.).  

3. Identify the requirements for securing travel and employment documents. 
4. Identify and locate major U.S. representational offices and sources of assistance 

located abroad. 
5. Explain the role of U.S. Customs and the customs agencies of other countries. 
6. Assess risk involved in international business travel. 

M. Career Development  
1. Identify sources of international career information. 
2. Research and analyze career opportunities in international business. 
3. Describe the skills and qualifications needed for success in the international 

business career path. 
4. Compare the application, interview, and hiring practices of various cultures. 

  

International Business (High School) - Page 10 of 11 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
International Business (High School) 
International Business Role Play Presentation Rating Sheet 

Expectation Item Not Below  
Demonstrated Expectations Meets Expectations Exceeds Points

Expectations Earned 

No description or Describes and Describes and Demonstrates 
expertise of role play 

Demonstrates understanding role play synopsis provides role play provides role play 
of the role play and defines provided; no synopsis OR defines synopsis AND defines synopsis AND 

problem(s) to be solved problems defined the problem(s) the problem(s) definition of the  
problem(s) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Alternative(s) given At least two Multiple alternatives 
No alternatives but pro(s) and/or alternatives given, and given and multiple 

Identifies alternatives and identified con(s) are not pro(s) and con(s) are pros and cons 
the pro(s) and con(s) of each  

analyzed analyzed analyzed for each 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 

olution provided, Logical solution and Feasible solution and 

Identifies logical solution No solution S
but implementation implementation plan implementation plan 

and aspects of identified plan not developed provided and developed, and 
rces  

implementation developed necessary resou
identified 

0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Demonstrates knowledge and  

understanding of the event 
knowledge areas:  

 
Basic international concepts, 

ownership and 
management,  No knowledge areas One or two  knowledge areas Four or more 

marketing, finance,  demonstrated knowledge areas are Three re 
communication (including demonstrated are demonstrated knowledge areas a

demonstrated 
culture and language),  

ethics, taxes and 
government regulations,  

currency exchange,  
international travel, career 

development 0 points 1-9 points 10-16 points 17-20 points 
Presentation Delivery 

Competitor(s) did Competitor(s) were Presentation flowed in 
a logical sequence; 

Statements are well- not appear prepared, but flow Presentation flowed in 
 sequence statements were well 

organized and clearly stated prepared was not logical logical  
organized 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Demonstrated 1-2 of emonstrated 3 of the 

Consistently displays Did not demonstrate the listed skills D
listed skills Demonstrated all 

confidence, poised body any of the listed (confidence, body (confidence, body skills, enhancing the 
language, engaging eye skills language, eye 

contact, and effective voice contact, or voice language, eye contact, overall presentation  

projection. projection) or voice projection) 

0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 
Interacted with the  

Unable to answer Does not completely Completely answers judges in the process 
Demonstrates the ability to questions answer questions questions of completely 

effectively answer questions answering questions 
0 points 1-6 points 7-8 points 9-10 points 

Staff Only: Penalty Points (5 points for dress code penalty and/or 5 points for late arrival penalty)  
 

Presentation Total (100 points)  
Name(s):  
School: Section:  
Judge Signature: Date:  
Comments: 

 
International Business (High School) - Page 11 of 11 – Updated November 2025  

© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.