2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management challenges members to demonstrate their 
understanding of the processes involved in the flow of goods, information, and finances within 
a supply chain. Through an objective test, members explore key concepts such as logistics, 
inventory control, procurement, and distribution strategies. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School (9th & 10th graders only) 
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Supply Chain & Transportation 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Technology 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Essential Supply Chain Management Concepts  
• Supply Chain Topics 
• Characteristics for 

Successful Supply Test Composition
Chain Managers 18

• Supply Chain Planning 16
14

and Design 12
• Supply Chain Process 10

• Product Portfolio 8
6

Management 4
• Improving Supply 2

Chain Network 0

Performance 
• Production Planning 

and Control 
• Supply Chain 

Coordination and 
Decision Making for 
the Flow of Products, Services, and Information 

• Supply Chain Management Contemporary Issues 
• Channels of Distribution 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 1 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 2 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 

are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 3 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

Sample Preparation Resources 
• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 

the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 4 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A.  Essential Supply Chain Management Concepts 

1. Define supply chain management. 
2. Define the entire supply chain. 
3. Define logistics. 
4. Explain how logistics impacts supply chain management. 
5. Describe how E-commerce, logistics, import taxes, risk, tariffs, customs, and other 

legal aspects impact global trading. 
6. Analyze the creation of new value in the supply chain for customers, society, and the 

environment. 
7. Explain how supply chain management is practiced in a wide array of industries.  
8. Explain demand forecasting, 
9. Define logistics management. 
10. Define physical and information flows. 
11. Define strategic orientation for saving money within an organization. 
12. Describe the global impact on supply chain management. 
13. Explain the importance of understanding importing, exporting, trade agreements, and 

customs regulations for supply chain management. 
14. Explain the reasons for growth of supply chain management (information revolution, 

increased competition in globalized markets, relationship management) 
B.  Supply Chain Topics 

1. Define analytics. 
2. Explain customer relationship management. 
3. Describe the role of forecasting. 
4. Explain the growth of global distribution. 
5. Explain supply chain management for healthcare industry. 
6. Explain the logistics of inventory management. 
7. Define procurement. 
8. Describe sales and operations planning. 
9. Define supply market intelligence. 
10. Define sustainability for supply chain management. 
11. Explain the relationship between supply chain management and transportation 

planning. 
12. Describe careers associated with supply chain management. 

C.  Characteristics for Successful Supply Chain Managers 
1. 5. Describe leadership opportunities for supply chain management. 
2. 7. Describe effective communication skills for supply chain managers. 
3. 8. Explain responsibility ethics for supply chain management. 
4. 9. Describe language skills possessed by successful chain managers. 
5. 10. Explain the importance of flexible thinking in supply chain management. 
13. Understand freight terminology. 
14. Explain the importance of people and problem-solving skills among successful supply 

chain managers. 
15. Explain the importance of technology skills among supply chain managers. 
16. Explain the sense of urgency associated with supply chain management. 
17. Describe the importance of Excel knowledge for supply chain management. 
18. Describe the temperament required for successful supply chain management. 

 

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 5 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
D. Supply Chain Planning and Design 

1. Explain the relationship between purchasing and supply chain management. 
2. Explain how a company will provide value to supply chain management. 
3. Explain how suppliers, subcontractors, transportation providers, and product 

distribution is determined by a company. 
4. Define supply chain integration. 
5. Describe management of supply and demand for supply chain management. 
6. Describe the efficient facility network design for supply chain management. 
7. Explain the importance of expense management for supply chain management. 

E.  Supply Chain Process 
1. Describe the role of manufacturing in a supply chain context. 
2. Define inventory management’s important relationship with supply chain management. 
3. Explain transportation management in a supply chain. 
4. Explain the role and cost of warehouses in supply chain management. 
5. Explain the process for product returns. 
6. Describe the importance of customer service in a supply chain. 

F.  Product Portfolio Management 
1. Determine what products to sell. 
2. Explain how a company determines what products are used and sold by a business. 
3. Define a product portfolio. 
4. Explain the Pareto principle. 
5. Identify slow-moving products headed toward obsolescence. 
6. Explain the importance of minimizing inventory during all stages of supply chain 

management. 
G.  Improving supply chain network performance 

1. Explain the importance of synchronizing material flow. 
2. Define inventory maximization. 
3. Define decoupling points for inventory maximization. 
4. Explain how algorithms are used to maximize capital costs associated with supply 

chain management. 
5. Explain how proximity to the customer relates to supply chain efficiency. 
6. Describe how product sourcing decisions are made. 
7. Describe evaluation processes for supply chain management. 
8. Define how supply chain management meets consumer needs. 
9. Explain how market signal and consumer demand impact supply chain management. 
10. Explain how to meet and improve customer needs for supply chain management. 
11. Describe how supply chain management meets and improves the logistic needs of 

different customer segments. 
H.  Production Planning and Control 

1. Describe different types of supply chain management planning. 
2. Define Static vs. Dynamic Planning. 
3. Explain how a master production schedule is determined. 
4. Define Bill of Material (BOM). 
5. Describe raw materials required for supply chain management. 
6. Describe work-in-process for supply chain management. 
7. Define finished goods and the goal to move those goods. 

 

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 6 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Introduction to Supply Chain Management 

 
I. Supply Chain Coordination and Decision Making for the Flow of Products, Services, and 

Information 
1. Explain the importance of cooperation and coordination in a supply chain. 
2. Describe the role of outsourcing in a supply chain. 
3. Describe measurement of supply chain performance. 
4. Explain the role of the team in supply chain management. 
5. Describe the channels of distribution for supply chain management. 

J.  Supply Chain Management Contemporary Issues 
1. Describe the impact of information technology in supply chain management. 
2. Explain how E-business has impacted supply chain management. 
3. Describe the financial flow in supply chain management. 
4. Explain how e-commerce has impacted channels of distribution. 
5. Describe political and economic events that impact supply chain management. 
6. Explain how competition impact supply chain management decisions. 

K.  Channels of Distribution 
1. List the functions of distribution channels. 
2. Explain time, place, and ownership utility. 
3. Explain the role of marketing channels for assembly, storage, sorting, and 

transportation of goods from manufacturers to customers. 
4. Define facilitation in supply chain management. 
5. Explain how channels of distribution provide pre-sale and post-purchase services like 

financing, maintenance, information dissemination, and channel coordination. 
6. Explain how supply chain management creates efficiencies. 
7. Describe how supply chain management involves sharing risks since most of the 

channels buy the products beforehand, they also share the risk with the 
manufacturers and do everything possible to sell it. 

8. Define indirect channels of distribution. 
9. Define the role of intermediaries in selling products. 
10. Define one-level channel of distribution (manufacturer to retailer to customer) 
11. Define two-level channel (manufacturer to wholesaler to retailer to customer) 
12. Define three-level channel (manufacturer to agent to wholesaler to retailer to 

customer) 
13. Describe dual distribution (showroom and internet selling) 
14. Explain how services use intermediaries to reach the final customers. 
15. Define the on-demand business model. 
16. Describe how market, product, competition, and company impact the choice of 

product distribution. 
17. Explain how product characteristics (perishability, cost, and technicality) impact 

supply chain management. 
 
 

 

Introduction to Supply Chain Management - Page 7 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.