2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
Organizational Leadership challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of 
leadership principles within a business context through an objective test. This event explores 
topics such as leadership styles, team management, motivation, and ethical decision-making, 
preparing members to lead effectively in organizational settings. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School  
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Management & Entrepreneurship 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking, 
Leadership, Professionalism,  
Teamwork 

 
Knowledge Areas 

• Leadership Concepts  
• Leadership Managerial Roles 
• Leadership Behavior and 

Motivation Test Composition
• Networking 7
• Communication Skills 6
• Leader/Follower Relations 5

• Team Leadership and Self- 4
3

Managed Teams 2
• Strategic Leadership for Managing 1

Crises and Change 0
• Levels of Leadership 
• Leadership Theory 
• Traits of Effective Leaders 
• Personality Profile of Effective 

Leaders 
• Leadership Attitudes 
• Ethical Leadership 
• Relationship Between Power, Politics, Networking, and Negotiation 
• Coaching 
• Managing Conflict 
• Leadership and Team Decision Making 
• Organizational Politics 
• Charismatic and Transformational Leadership 
• Stewardship and Servant Leadership 
• Leadership in a Diverse Setting 

Organizational Leadership - Page 1 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 

Leadership…
Leadership…
Behavior &…

Networking
Communication

Leader &…
Team…

Strategic…
Levels of…

Leadership…
Traits

Personality
Attitudes

Ethical…
Power, Politics,…

Coaching
Managing…

Team Decision…
Organizational…
Charismatic &…
Stewardship &…

Diverse Settings



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
National 
 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 

Organizational Leadership - Page 2 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
 
 
 
 

Organizational Leadership - Page 3 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

Sample Preparation Resources 
• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 

the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Organizational Leadership - Page 4 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A.  Leadership Concepts 

1. Explain why leadership is important. 
2. Define leadership. 
3. Explain how self-assessment is used to determine leadership potential. 
4. Describe characteristics of leaders (initiative, ability to function independently, 

follow-through, ethics, and ability to respond to ambiguity and change, resiliency, 
positive attitude, confidence, record of excellence). 

B.  Leadership Managerial Roles 
1. Describe interpersonal roles for managerial leadership. 
2. Explain informational roles for managerial leadership. 
3. Describe decisional roles of managerial leaders. 
4. Understand the importance of effective research for leadership decisions. 
5. Appreciate the perspectives of other individuals within an organization. 
6. Explain how successful leaders use reflection and application for future challenges. 
7. Explain the importance of analyzing situations to gain a more comprehensive 

understanding. 
8. Explain how leaders connect individual thinking with systems thinking. 
9. Explain the importance of evaluating different alternatives to make the best decisions. 
10. Describe how leaders generate new ideas by expanding their thinking beyond 

convention. 
11. Explain how problem solving and decision making are key duties for leaders. 
12. Explain how self-understanding (personal values, personal contributions, scope of 

competence) determines leadership capabilities. 
C.  Leadership Behavior and Motivation 

1. Compare leadership styles. 
2. Explain the difference between job-centered and employee-centered behavior. 
3. Explain the motivation process for leadership. 
4. Compare and contrast motivation theories. 
5. Define Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs Theory. 
6. Explain the need for individuals to balance professional and personal needs. 
7. Define the Equity Theory, Expectancy Theory, Reinforcement Theory, and Goal-Setting 

Theory for motivation. 
D.  Networking 

1. Define professional networking. 
2. Explain the relationship between professional networking and leadership. 
3. Explain the leadership advantages of forming professional networks. 
4. Describe the power of productive interpersonal interaction. 
5. Describe characteristics of productive leaders (appropriate interaction with others, 

empathy, mentoring, helping others, motivation, empowerment, feedback, 
supervision, collaboration, and other’s contributions). 

E.  Communication Skills 
1. Explain how successful leadership is based upon solid communication. 
2. Define the elements of the communication process (sender, receiver, message, and 

feedback). 
3. Explain common approaches to getting feedback on messages. 
4. Explain the power of nonverbal communication. 
5. Explain the role of conflict negotiation for groups. 
6. Explain the importance of listening skills. 

Organizational Leadership - Page 5 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
F.  Leader/Follower Relations 

1. Define the Leader-Member Exchange (LMX) Theory. 
2. Describe how group dynamics impact team building for leadership. 
3. Explain strategies for developing positive leader-member relations. 
4. Explain the importance of effective leader feedback. 
5. List characteristics of an effective follower. 
6. Explain the dual role of being a leader and a follower. 

G.  Team Leadership and Self-Managed Teams 
1. Explain the use of teams in organizations. 
2. Explain the difference between a group and a team. 
3. Explain advantages and disadvantages of teamwork. 
4. Describe characteristics of effective teams and the role of leadership. 
5. Differentiate characteristics of different teams (functional, cross-functional, and self-

managed). 
H.  Strategic Leadership for Managing Crises and Change 

1. Explain the need to analyze the environment to form a strategic vision. 
2. Explain the importance of mission statement, objectives, and strategic 

planning/implementation for leadership. 
3. Explain the importance of evaluating leadership strategies. 
4. Explain the need for leadership in crisis situations. 
5. Define crisis management. 
6. List the five-step process for crisis management (risk identification, risk assessment 

and ranking, risk reduction strategies, crisis prevention simulations, crisis 
management). 

7. Recognize the need for change. 
8. Understand why people resist change. 
9. Define the change process. 
10. Explain the mission, vision, goals, plan, and organization for making leadership 

decisions. 
I.  Levels of Leadership 

1. Explain individual leadership. 
2. Describe leadership within a group. 
3. Define organizational leadership. 
4. Describe interrelationships among individual, group, and organizational leadership. 

J.  Leadership Theory 
1. Describe leadership theory. 
2. Explain application of leadership theory. 
3. Explain leadership skill development and the need for flexibility. 

K.  Traits of Effective Leaders 
1. Define traits of effective leaders. 
2. Explain how leadership traits can be acquired. 

L.  Personality Profile of Effective Leaders 
1. Explain the Achievement Motivation Theory. 
2. Define the Leader Motive Profile. 
3. Explain how self-assessment is used to determine leadership qualities. 

M.  Leadership Attitudes 
1. Differentiate Theory X and Theory Y styles of leadership. 
2. Explain how attitudes influence leadership styles. 
3. Explain the Pygmalion Effect on Leadership. 

Organizational Leadership - Page 6 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Organizational Leadership 

 
N.  Ethical Leadership 

1. Explain ethical leadership behavior. 
2. Explain how personality traits and attitudes, moral development, and the situation 

affect ethical behavior. 
3. Describe how people justify unethical behavior. 
4. Describe simple guides to ethical behavior. 
5. List characteristics of ethical leaders. 

O.  Relationship Between Power, Politics, Networking, and Negotiation 
1. Describe sources of power for leaders. 
2. Explain types of power, influencing tactics, and ways to increase personal power. 

P.  Coaching 
1. Explain the relationship between coaching and leadership. 
2. Describe why criticism does not work. 
3. Explain how mentoring is used to prepare future leaders. 

Q.  Managing Conflict 
1. Describe conflict management styles. 
2. Define conflict resolution and mediation. 

R.  Leadership and Team Decision Making 
1. Describe the difference between leader-centered and group-centered decision 

making. 
2. Explain the difference between individual and team decision making. 

S.  Organizational Politics 
1. Explain the nature of organizational politics. 
2. Explain the relationship between political behavior and leadership. 

T.  Charismatic and Transformational Leadership 
1. Describe factors that determine personal meaning. 
2. Describe characteristics of charismatic leaders. 
3. Explain the effects of charismatic leadership. 
4. Define attributes and behaviors for transformational leadership. 

U.  Stewardship and Servant Leadership 
1. Explain the nature of stewardship and servant leadership. 
2. Describe the framework for stewardship and servant leadership. 

V.  Leadership in a Diverse Setting 
1. Understand the power of culture. 
2. Differentiate characteristics of low-performance and high-performance culture. 
3. Describe how leaders are culture creators. 
4. Explain how culture, values, diversity, and the learning organization influence the role 

of leaders. 
5. Define diversity and explain the importance of inclusion for decision making. 
6. Explain the importance of social responsibility. 

 
 

Organizational Leadership - Page 7 of 7 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.