2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Securities & Investments 

 
Securities & Investments challenges members to demonstrate their understanding of 
investment principles and financial markets through an objective test. This event covers topics 
such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, portfolio management, and risk analysis, encouraging 
members to build foundational knowledge in personal and professional investing. 
 
Event Overview 
 

Division High School  
Event Type Individual 
Event Category Objective Test 
Event Elements 50-minute test, 100-multiple choice 

questions 
 
Educational Alignments 
 

Career Cluster Framework Connection Financial Services 
NACE Competency Alignment Career & Self-Development, 

Communication, Critical Thinking 
 
Knowledge Areas 

• Investment Fundamentals  
• Investments Wrappers, Taxation, Test Composition

and Trusts 
25

• Investment Product and Funds 20
• Stock Market 15

10
• Stocks Versus Other Investments 5
• Mutual Funds 0

• Basics of Bonds 
• Derivatives 
• Financial Services Regulation 

 
Test questions are based on the knowledge areas and objectives outlined for this event. 
Detailed objectives can be found in the study guide included in these guidelines. 
 
District/Region/Section 
Check with your District/Region/Section leadership for District/Region/Section-specific 
competition information and deadlines. 
 
State 
Check with your State Leader for state-specific competition information and deadlines. 
 
  

Securities & Investments - Page 1 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Securities & Investments 

 
National 
Required Competition Items   

Items Competitor Must Provide Items FBLA Provides On-site 
• Sharpened pencil • One piece of scratch paper per 
• Fully powered device for online testing competitor 
• Conference-provided nametag • Internet access 
• Photo identification • Test login information (link & password 
• Attire that meets the FBLA Dress Code provided at test check-in) 

 
Important FBLA Documents 

• Competitors should be familiar with the Competitive Events Policy & Procedures 
Manual, Honor Code, Code of Conduct, and Dress Code.  

 
Eligibility Requirements 
To participate in FBLA competitive events at the National Leadership Conference (NLC), the 
following criteria must be met: 

• Membership Deadline: FBLA national membership dues must be paid to the specific 
division by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on March 1 of the current school year. 

• Repeat Competitors: Members may only compete in an event at the NLC more than 
once if they have not previously placed in the top 10 of that event at the NLC. If a 
member places in the top 10 of an event at the NLC, they are no longer eligible to 
compete in that event at future NLCs, unless the event has been modified beyond a 
name change. Chapter events are exempt from this procedure. 

• Conference Registration: Members must be officially registered for the NLC and must 
pay the national conference registration fee to participate. 

• Official Hotel Requirement: To be eligible to compete, competitors must stay within 
the official FBLA housing block. 

• State Entry Limits: Each state may submit up to four entries per event. 
• Event Participation Limits: Each member may participate in: 

o One individual or team event, and 
o One chapter event (e.g., Community Service Project or Local Chapter Annual 

Business Report). 
• Participation Requirement: To be eligible for an award, each competitor must 

complete all components of the event at the National Leadership Conference. 
• Identification at Check-in: Competitors must present valid photo identification 

(physical or digital) that matches the name on their conference name badge. 
Acceptable forms include a driver’s license, passport, state-issued ID, or school ID. 

• Late Arrivals: Competitors will be allowed to compete until such time that the results 
are finalized, or participation would impact the fairness and integrity of the event, as 
determined by Competitive Events staff. Five penalty points will be assessed for late 
arrivals in any competitive event.   

• Event Schedule Notes: 
o Some events may begin before the Opening Session. 
o All schedules are posted in local time for the NLC host city. 
o Schedule changes are not permitted. 

Securities & Investments - Page 2 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Securities & Investments 

 
Event Administration 

• Test Duration: 50 minutes 
• Format: This event consists of an online objective test that is proctored and 

completed on-site at the National Leadership Conference (NLC). 
• Materials: Reference or study materials are not permitted at the testing site. 
• Calculators: Personal calculators are not allowed; an online calculator will be available 

within the testing platform. 
• Question Review: Competitors may flag questions within the testing platform for 

review prior to the finalization of results at the NLC. 
 

Scoring 
• Each correct answer is worth one point. 
• No points are deducted for incorrect answers. 
• Tiebreakers are determined as follows: (1) The number of correct responses to 10 pre-

selected tiebreaker questions will be compared. (2) If a tie remains, the number of 
correct responses to 20 pre-selected questions will be reviewed. (3) If a tie still 
remains, the competitor who completed the test in the shortest amount of time will 
be ranked higher. 

• Results announced at the National Leadership Conference are considered official and 
will not be changed after the conclusion of the National Leadership Conference. 

 
Penalty Points 

• Competitors may be disqualified if they violate the Code of Conduct or the Honor 
Code. 

• Five points are deducted if competitors do not follow the Dress Code or are late to the 
testing site. 

 
Recognition 

• A maximum of 10 entries (individuals or teams) may be recognized per event. 
 
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 

• FBLA complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by providing reasonable 
accommodations for competitors. Accommodation requests must be submitted 
through the conference registration system by the official registration deadline. All 
requests will be reviewed, and additional documentation may be required to 
determine eligibility and appropriate support. 

 
Electronic Devices 

• Unless approved as part of a documented accommodation, all cell phones, 
smartwatches, electronic devices, and headphones must be turned off and stored 
away before the competition begins. Visible devices during the event will be 
considered a violation of the FBLA Honor Code. 
 

 
 

Securities & Investments - Page 3 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Securities & Investments 

 
Sample Preparation Resources 

• Official sample test items can be found in CONNECT. These sample items showcase 
the types of questions that may be asked on the test and familiarize competitors with 
the multiple-choice item options. 

  

Securities & Investments - Page 4 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Securities & Investments 

 
Study Guide: Knowledge Areas and Objectives 
A.   Investment Fundamentals 

1. Define terminology common to securities & investments. 
2. Demonstrate knowledge of savings. 
3. Identify stages of investing and the relationship between risk and return. 
4. Identify sources of financial information to make investment decisions. 

B.  Investment Wrappers, Taxation, and Trusts 
1. Describe individual savings accounts. 
2. Demonstrate knowledge of Pensions. 
3. Demonstrate knowledge of taxation. 
4. Describe and Identify Investment bonds. 

C. Investment Product & Funds 
1. Identify and explain the different types of loans. 
2. Explain the purposes of mortgages. 
3. Demonstrate the knowledge and purpose of life assurance. 
4. Describe and explain unit trusts. 
5. Describe opened ended investment companies. 
6. Identify the characteristics of pricing, dealing, and settlement. 
7. Identify and explain what Investment trusts are. 
8. Demonstrate knowledge of how hedge funds work. 

D.  Stock Market 
1. Explain how stock market benefits investors and companies. 
2. Analyze stock tables for investment related information. 
3. Describe options for handling accumulated money/earnings. 
4. Understand the types of investments. 
5. Compare and differentiate between Primary vs secondary markets. 
6. Distinguish between Bull, bear, and pig markets. 

E.  Stock versus Other Investments 
1. Demonstrate knowledge of compounding. 
2. Explain the purpose of company. 
3. Describe ethical behavior in support center. 
4. Understand the process of gathering relevant information. 
5. Evaluate financial statements. 
6. Define terminology common to stock markets and other investments. 

F.  Mutual Funds 
1. Understanding and explaining total return. 
2. Describe mutual funds and its involvement with taxes. 
3. Identify the process of purchasing mutual funds. 
4. Explain benefits with investment in mutual funds. 
5. Understand fund costs. 

G.  Basics of Bonds 
1. Demonstrate the knowledge of bond duration. 
2. Describe the process of buying bonds. 
3. Describe the process of issuing bonds. 
4. Identify the roles of collateral. 
5. Compare secured and unsecured bonds. 
6. Introduction to government bonds. 
7. Identify U.S. government agency bonds and savings bonds. 

Securities & Investments - Page 5 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission. 



2025-2026 Competitive Events Guidelines 
Securities & Investments 

 
H.  Derivatives 

1. Demonstrate the knowledge of Futures. 
2. Demonstrate the knowledge of Options. 
3. Demonstrate the knowledge of SWAPS. 
4. Describe the different uses of Derivatives. 

I.  Financial Services Regulation 
1. Explain Financial Services & Markets Act. 
2. Identify Financial Crime. 
3. Explain insider dealing and market abuse. 
4. Describe the Data Protection Act 1998. 
5. Identify types of Breaches, complaints, and compensation. 

 
 

 

Securities & Investments - Page 6 of 6 – Updated November 2025  
© 2026 National Future Business Leaders of America, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 

distributed, or transmitted in any form without prior written permission.